*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

VARD UNIVERSITY
CLASS OF 1939

TWENTY-FIFTH
ANNIVERSARY REPORT

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

Individual Records of the Class

Italicized name indicates deceased.

* Indicates members who died in Service in World War II.
+ Indicates no questionnaire returned.

SAMUEL I. ABELOW

— mere - voor te
ay é 4
* /

WE gr ence nace

  

energie ar usrnenr mney
" Tes,
¢

  

HOME ADDRESS: 297 S. Compo Rd., Westport, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Grey Advertising, Inc., 430 Park Ave., New York 22, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936.

MARRIED: Geraldine Anne Green, Sept. 4, 1948. cHILpREN: Kathryn, June 27,
1952; David Hall, Feb. 12, 1954.

occupation: Vice-president — copy supervisor, advertising agency.
MEMBER OF: Dramatists Guild of the Authors League of America.

During World War II, I was with the Eighth Air Force, working in
Intelligence and stationed in England for two years. Following V-J
Day, I came to New York and landed first in the broadcasting business
with C.B.S., then in advertising. Inevitably, | moved my family to West-
port, where proper admen live. We have lived here going-on nine years
and have yet to witness any of the peculiar carryings-on which are sup-
posed to make this a sink of exurbanite iniquity. It may be simply that
we are not observant. The only genuinely iniquitous aspect of the com-
muter’s life that I experience regularly is the New Haven Railroad.

We brood with our fellow townspeople about the problems of educat-
ing the young and of elevating the tone of their after-school hours. There
is also a dedicated and active United Nations Association here, which
gives us frequent opportunities to meet representatives from practically
any country you can name. (My children probably know more about
Dahomey — to give one example — than most people twice their weight. )

Visitors from Dahomey, and other new African nations, keep us on
our toes explaining race relations in the United Srates. It isn't easy.

2 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

IRWIN CARLETON ABRAHAMS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2679 E. Fayette St., Syracuse 3, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: General Electric Co., Electronics Park, Syracuse, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lynn English High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; s.m., 1940.

MARRIED: Anne Rosenthal, June 14, 1942. cHwpren: Arthur David, Jan. 10, 1946;
Robert Leonard, Oct. 15, 1949; George Michael, June 11, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Electronics engineer, consulting engineer for General Electric Com-
pany.

OFFICES HELD: President, Electronics Laboratory Branch, Research Society of
America, 1962-63; president, Louis Marshall Lodge, B’nai B'rith, 1954;
master, Philo Lodge No. 968, F. & A.M., 1962.

MEMBER OF: Research Society of America; Syracuse Friends of Chamber Music;
Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers; Optical Society of America;
Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers; Syracuse Astronomical

ciety.

PUBLICATIONS: Various technical papers appearing in the journals of several of
above societies; Chapter 13 of Television Engineering Handbook, D. G. Fink,

editor.

A description of my life will show that it has been relatively unevent-
ful. This is all right with me: I keep young by adopting the philosophy
of today’s young people, that is to say, the more security the better.
Leave the adventure to the men of action, the entrepreneurs, and the
people in the cigarette ads.

After graduation, I took my Master’s at Harvard, after which I joined
the General Electric Company as an electronics engineer, at Schenec-
tady, New York. I immediately became associated with a new, secret
device called “radar.” I also spent the weekends commuting between
Schenectady and Boston, until the graduation of my wife-to-be from
Radcliffe, after which we married.

During the war years, | worked on the development of a radar gun-
fire-control device. Much of this work was done at the MIT Radiation
Laboratory in Cambridge. Although my services were required only as
a civilian, I did more sea duty during the testing phase than many a
Navy man.

After the war, I moved to Syracuse, where my professional interest
turned to the engincering side of television, then just about to emerge.

If | could have foreseen television’s “vast wasteland” of today, perhaps I
might have devoted my efforts in a negative direction. I do concede,

a ~~
ent eam ee EC /

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

however, that the applications of television other than “entertainment,
plus the occasional good programs, as well as ETV, still justify the effort:
of my colleagues and myself.

For a few years, | forsook the television field to work on the Atla:
missile. After spending much of the time flying between the east anc
west coasts, | decided to return to the comparative order and quiet of the
laboratory. As this is written I am still in Syracuse. By the time it is
published, however, according to plan, I shall again be in Schenectady.
where I shall be a staff member of the General Electric Research Labora-
tory.

As the résumé indicates, | have three sons. The eldest applied to Har-
vard, but was one of the three out of four applicants who were rejected.
Oh well, [ have two more tries coming.

Although I have a number of relatively dormant hobbies, such as
photography and astronomy, I am active in two major areas at present.
One is in my music. I play the violin somewhat poorly; nevertheless, I
get great enjoyment out of playing 3 in an amateur string quartet. Natu-
rally, I attend any concerts in town; I am a contributor (in money and
time, although not musically) to a local Chamber Music Society. Most of
the remainder of my spare time is devoted to Masonic affairs. Even after
becoming a Past Master, | have continued in these endeavors, probably
out of sheer habit. I tell myself that when I move back to Schenectady,
I shall spend more time on the creative activities, including photography
and music, and less on fraternal and civic work.

Thus the Twenty-fifth may well mark a turning point for me. We'll
see.

JEROME LE ROY ABRAMS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 47 Maytime Drive, Jericho, Long Island, N.Y,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lehman, Goldmark, Rohrlich & Solomon, 30 Broad St. New
York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Long Branch High School, Long Branch, NJ.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B, magna cum laude, 1939: Lie, 19-42.

MARHIED: Beatrice Jacobson, Aug. 2, 1942. critonen: Richard Howard, Dee. 7,
1946; Beth Alva, June 27, 19-19,

OCCUPATIONS Attorneys managing partner.

orricks Herp: Member, Committee on State Legislation, New York County
Lawyers’ Association, since 1959; former member, Committee on Arbitration,

4 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

New York County Lawyers’ Association; member, National Panel of Arbitra
tors, American Arbitration Association, since 1957; member, Harvard Law
School Association; president and director, Birchwood Civic Association at
Jericho, Inc., two terms, 1956-57; director of several charitable foundations.

puBLicaTions: Arbitration, Courts and Corporate Problems: A Semantic Ap-
proach (R. Emerson Swart Prize in competition sponsored by New York
University School of Law).

Where has the time gone? It seems incredible that almost twenty-five
vears have passed since those exciting and happy days at Cambridge.
Vivid in my memory is graduation week, 1939, when my then date (now
my wife) made an offhand allusion to the “old” men who were parading
before us for their Twenty-fifth Reunion. Now it’s our turn to join this
“ancient” and venerable group for our Twenty-fifth Reunion and I am
constrained to contend, hopefully, that age is not a matter of years but
rather of attitude of mind.

After college I received the Felix Frankfurter Award and spent three
years at Harvard Law School. Toward the end of my last year J enlisted
in the U.S. Army and spent approximately one and one-half years in-
conspicuously at Fort Jay, Governors Island, as part of a headquarters
office group that included such diverse personalities as Sidney Kingsley,
the playwright, Strom Thurmond (Dixiecrat nominee for the Presidency,
former Governor, and now Senator from South Carolina), Efrem Zimba-
list, Jr., actor, and E. M. Warburg, financier. Found some spare time to
play basketball on the Headquarters Company team, act as drama critic
for the Army newspaper and — oh, yes— to get married on a three-day
pass.

I went overseas with the Headquarters Company of the First U.S.
Army, participated in five battle campaigns (Provost Marshal section)
through England, France, Belgium and Germany and, in the process,
picked up the Bronze Star and the requisite points necessary for separa-
tion. Back to New York to become associated as an attorney with Cook,
Lehman, Goldmark & Loeb, predecessor to the present firm of Lehman,
Goldmark, Rohrlich & Solomon, of which I have been a partner for
more than ten years.

Settled down to a normal life of family, law practice and civic activity;
bought a house in Jericho, Long Island, and live there now. Found time
to write and have published Arbitration, Courts and Corporate Problems:
A Semantic Approach which received the R. Emerson Swart Prize
from New York University Law School and occasioned a reception in
my honor tendered by the American Arbitration Association.

The life of a practising attorney is stimulating and sweeping — it
touches numerous facets of human emotions and interests and its demands
are most exacting. Yet there is real satisfaction — and agonizing pain, too
— in the ebb and flow of good and ill fortune on a client’s behalf What-
ever routine one finds in the pursuit of this elusive mistress, it has many
compensating, exciting and pleasant interludes. 1 certainly treasure, as

a Felix Frankfurter Scholarship holder, my invitation to, and presence in,
Washington on two occasions for intimate and informal dinners with
Justice Felix Frankfurter and other U.S. Supreme Court Justices,
On a civic level f became interested in the affairs and problems of my
community some six or seven years ago, becoming president of a large

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 5

and dynamic civic association for two terms; but I have eschewed oppor-
tunities to become a candidate for political office and, once, to be con-
sidered for nomination as a Judge.

As to my outlook for the future —I am still optimistic and, generally,
I still believe that people are in the main inherently decent. I think that
the nuclear age and recent developments provide a realistic basis for the
prevention of war—but it is, of course, difficult to be sanguine in re-
spect of such conclusion — yet, certainly, there is good reason to hope,
indeed, to anticipate that our children and their descendants can lead the
“good” life and derive increasing satisfaction and beauty from this most
interesting of planets — and, who knows, perhaps from the moon as well.

       

LOUIS KRAMER ACH

cama ME SRS ae a
mba LS, r z *
: 2 4 .

|

   

HOME apprEss: 1435 Ainapua St., Honolulu 17, Hawaii.

OFFIce appress: Planning Research Corp., Cincpac Staff Box 32A, Camp H. M.
Smith, Honolulu, Hawaii.

PREPARED AT: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939.
MmarRIED: Marian Natorp, Dec. 29, 1939 (divorced 1953); Marcella Wilkerson,

Oct. 5, 1958. cHitpReN: Julie E., Nov. 10, 1944; Jeffrey R., May 12, 1947;
Sally K., June 24, 1962.

occupation: Mathematician — computer programmer, research organization, gov-
ernment contract.

I was married shortly after graduation and moved immediately to
California, convinced that I had seen enough ice and snow to last the
rest of my life. After a year at the Stanford Graduate School of Busi-
ness, I returned to Cincinnati for a short stint in the department store
business before entering the Air Force (with some assistance from my
local draft board) for World War II. Spent four years in the service,
mostly as a bombsight maintenance officer. After a fairly honorable
discharge, I returned to California to put into practice some of my Stan-
ford-acquired knowledge of business administration, For ten years I
worked for a succession of business systems and business machines com-
panies, with a couple of years as an accountant thrown in,

In 1956 1 decided I had had enough of the crass commercial world;

went to work (at an appreciable pay cuc) for RAND, a non-profit
research outfit in Santa Monica. Since then I] have been in the computer

6 ' HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

programming field for RAND, SDC (a RAND offshoot) and Planni
Research Corporation. I have found this type of work unfailingly f
cinating — my only regret is that I didn’t start earlier.

My present wife and I were married in 1958; she had also worked
SDC. I find I really have very little to complain about in my curre
life; my wife and small daughter enjoy living in Hawaii almost as mus
as 1 do. May the next twenty-five years continue in the same vein.

JOHN DINSMORE ADAMS

rc itt mente ome sssut

   

    

Pra ETRE ote y oy emten mmecypma ms nt Met

HOME ADDRESS: Katonah’s Wood Road, Katonah, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Turk, Marsh, Ouchterloney, Kelly & Hoare, 666 Fifth Ave., New
York 19, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Brattleboro High School, Brattleboro, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEcREES: 4.B., cum laude, 1939; Li.B., 1942.

MARRIED: Jean W. Barradale, June 27, 1942. cumpren: John Dinsmore, Jr, Jan.
11, 1944; Sallie Barradale, July 13, 1947.

HARVARD SON: John Dinsmore Adams, Jr., ’62.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer, partner.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Institute of International Education, New York City;
director, vice-president, treasurer, Max Kade Foundation, New York City.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Bedford Golf and Tennis Club, Bedford,

N.Y.; American Bar Association; Association of the Bar of the City of New
York; Signet Society.

Socially and professionally, 1 am known as Dinsmore Adams, not John
D. Adams.

After graduation from law school, | was admitted to the Vermont and
New York bars. | served for one year as Clerk to Honorable Harrie B.
Chase, Judge of the United States Court of Appeals for the Second
Circuit. In 1943 I joined a New York law firm with which I have re-
mained for the last twenty years. My mentor was the late William D.
Mitchell, Coolidge’s Solicitor General and Hoover’s Attorney General.
My practice is not specialized and, as a rule, my partners ask me to
handle cases which do not fall into some ready office category. It is a
general equity practice, including litigation and appellate work when
necessary.

The first seven years of our marriage were spent in New York City,
buc for the last fifteen years we have lived in the area of Bedford, New

York. Our home is quite isolated, which is befitting for two displaced

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 7

Vermonters. Several years ago our children deserted us, in a sense, to
pursue their educations, Dinny now at Harvard, and Sallie at Miss Por-
ter’s School in Farmington. Dinny participates actively in competitive
tennis and squash. He was captain of the freshman squash team, Sallie
is a voracious reader, likes to sing, plays a mean game of field hockey,
and, I am told, a still meaner game of lacrosse. Jean and I like to go deep
sea fishing in the Bahamas when we get the chance and either alone or
with Dinny I usually manage to go duck shooting once a year on the
Chesapeake. Jean has always had the happy faculty of keeping our way
of life informal, but sometimes I suspect Jean has followed the advice
Judge Learned Hand gave her twenty years ago: “Young lady, it’s not
your size that counts; it’s the punch you pack.”

I subdued my desire to become a teacher by going to law school, but
Lam still deeply interested in the problems of education. I take an active
part in the various programs being carried out by the Institute of Inter-
national Education and by the Max Kade Foundation. Both those organi-

zations are primarily interested in exchange scholarships at the graduate
and undergraduate level.

I do not believe that I have any set social, political or religious convic-
tions. I still sleep well and dream well. That may sound smug, but Jean
would answer, “And you still talk in your sleep.”

EDWARD HARRIS ADDELSON

oe

    

HOME ADDRESS: 750 Washington St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Simmons College, Boston 15, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; PH.D., 1956.

MARRIED: Janet B. Dubinsky, March 7, 1943. CHILDREN: Jonathan D., Dec. 4, 1948;
Edward H., Jr., Oct. 30, 1950.

occupation: Associate professor of French language and literature.
MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association of America, American Association of
Teachers of French, American Association of University Professors.

k

A member of the vast gray segment of the teaching profession, I must
confess to having lived, alas, an uneventful and unexciting life — unex-
citing, surely, to my classmates. I took a horribly long time at getting my
doctorate at Harvard, the difficulties being compounded of several fac-
tors; the interval of war service (I entered the V-7 midshipman training

—ihesttmamaniats | | | |

8 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

program in ’42 and emerged as a lieutenant at the end of the war), my
own sloth and stupidity, and a rather heavy program as a teaching fellow.
I think that I, more than anyone else, am responsible for Harvard’s de-
cision to eliminate the full-time teaching fellowship; after their expe-
rience with me they decided that teaching only half-tume was reasonably
compatible with the completion of graduate work. In the process, how-
ever, I did discover that teaching is what I want to do. Its joys really
defy analysis: it has something to do with that occasional glimpse of a
countenance lighted by unwonted comprehension, something to do with
one’s own vanity and the delight of communicating one’s own views and
making oneself understood, and, I'm afraid, something to do with the
security of one’s situation —the possession of a captive audience held in
the thralldom of grades. For the last ten years I’ve been teaching at
Simmons College in Boston. It’s a women’s college, as some of you may
know, and a good one, and I’m very happy there; in some ways teaching
girls is much more fun than teaching boys.

As for the rest of it, it’s all very uneventful — and happy. I married a
Radcliffe classmate who herself will be celebrating her ‘I'wenty-fifth this
June. We have two boys, aged fifteen and thirteen, both perplexing,
gratifying and annoying in turn, as boys will be. Janet, my wife, stood
housework as long as she was able and when finally our younger son
entered the first grade she too went back to school, where she has been
ever since, teaching mathematics at Brookline High. She does it, I know,
wonderfully well and is quite happy at it.

A few more words about myself: I have lately been conscious of the
fact that I am aging. It’s not so much the gray hair and the paunch
(though I must regretfully acknowledge them) as it is a matter of atti-
tude. I find myself suspecting that the theatre, movies, the best-sellers
of the day are not what they were a couple of decades ago—and yet
I’m horrified at the thought of becoming a “crier of times past.” I cleave
to the tenets of my youth, for instance, the radicalism and agnosticism
of an age gone by, in this era of conformism, the organization man and
church-going that make me aware of being old-fashioned, passé, behind-
the-times. To conclude this melancholic self-appraisal let me add that

more and more I value the qualities of the home: comradeship, tranquility
and peace.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 9

HOME ADDRESS: 2256 Lambert Drive, Pasadena, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kindel & Anderson, Suite 1020, 510 S. Spring St., Los Angeles,
allt.

PREPARED AT: Webb School of California, Claremont, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; LL.B., 1942(46).

MARRIED: Gilda DeMaio, Dec. 2, 1944. cHILDREN: William C., March 5, 1948;
Margaret E., March 12, 1952; Mary Ellen M., March 29, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Attorney-at-law; partner, Kindel & Anderson.

MEMBER OF: American and Los Angeles Bar Associations; American Judicature
Society; California Society of C.P.A.’s; California Club.

After graduation I attended Harvard Law School for two years; joined
the Marine Corps in June of 1941; completed law school after discharge
from the Marine Corps in 1946; and commenced law practice in Los
Angeles, in which, except for a brief hiatus, I have been engaged to

resent date. In these years there have been high and low points, and
good and bad experiences, with the high and the good outweighing sub-
stantially, I think, the low and the bad. I have been fortunate, or life has
been kind.

RAYMOND JACOB AISNER

   

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 Jackson Ave., Rutherford, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939, DEGREES: A.B., 1939; D.M.D., cum laude, 1943.

MARRIED: Sybil Rottenberg, 1942 (divorced 1949); Florence Manzbach, 1950.
CHILDREN: Jamie Ann, Jan. 24, 1946; Lisa Myra, April 12, 1955; Claudia
Gail, Sept. 11, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Dentist.

MEMBER OF: American Dental Association; New Jersey State Dental Society; Ber-
gen County Dental Society; Harvard Dental School Alumni Association;
Omicron Kappa Upsilon Honorary Dental Fraternity; Alpha Omega Dental
Fraternity; Rutherford Chamber of Commerce; B’nai B’rith Lodge; American
Legion; Jewish War Veterans.

Tt hardly seems possible that twenty-five years have slipped by so
quickly. 1 must confess that there were occasions in the past when time
seemed at a standstill, particularly when, by devious paths, my attempts
to achieve standing and recognition met successive butts and frustration.
It’s obvious when I look back now what my direction and concentration
should have been, because once the true course was set, the goal was not
long in reaching. "

10 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

After graduation I enrolled at the Harvard Dental School in the fall
of 1939. This course of study was undoubtedly my field because I made
top honors, was awarded the Eugene Hanes Smith Scholarship and the
Harvard Dental School Alumni Association Medal for highest achieve-
ment, and was elected to Omicron Kappa Upsilon Honorary Dental
Fraternity. These were war years and in 1942 I was listed as second lieu-
tenant, MAC. It was in this year that my first marriage took place, end-
ing in divorce in 1949.

The Army Dental Corps embraced me from 1943 to 1946 and my
assignment was as first lieutenant, later captain, with the Air Force. As
a dental officer these years were uneventful for me except for the usual
broken roots, ill-fitting dentures and monthly reports. Shortly before
discharge my first daughter Jamie was born. I believe she takes after the
old man, for she has a desire for dentistry and is now studying oral hy-
giene at college. I am proud of her scholastic achievements and her way
with people is direct and reassuring.

After discharge in 1946 the ensuing four years found me on the de-
vious paths. In rapid succession came an association with a former pro-
fessor from 1946 to 1947; a commercial endeavor from 1947 to 1949,
successful but ill-advised; divorce in 1949; civilian dentist with the Army
for the next two years interspersed with teaching dental technology and
studying for the New York and New Jersey boards; two more profes-
sional associations to 1952.

This meaningless, headlong dash ground to a halt when I married Flor-
ence, which was undoubtedly my finest hour. Accolades to my wife who
deservedly heads my list of credits.

There followed the establishment of my professional practice here in
Rutherford, New Jersey, a thoroughly gratifying home-office combina-
tion. In due course arrived our little girls, Lisa and Claudia, who afford
us such pleasure and pride, surround us with gaiety, energy, and the
songs and laughter of children.

As to the present, my practice demands my fullest devotion. How-
ever, there is time for travel, relaxation, and postgraduate study. I’ve been
for many years a do-it-yourself electronic hobbyist, and my most recent
project has been the construction of a Schober Concert Organ. I plan
the serious study of this king of instruments if I can but curb my im-
patience with the necessary practice sessions involved.

In essence, 1 am enjoying the full life with my family, my profession,
my leisure-time activities. I have profited from my errors, delighted in
my successes, and hope that the future will be healthful for us all, peace-
ful, kind and generous.

rr eg ie \ ee,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT II

GEORGE EDWARD AKERSON, JR.

   

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Herald-Traveler, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Bronxville High School, Bronxville, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939.

MARRIED: Anne Abbott, Sept. 5, 1941, Lakeland, Fla. cumpren: George Edward,
3d, June 19, 1942; Stuart Abbott, Dec. 9, 1946; William N., Sept. 19, 1950.

OCCUPATION: President of the corporation and publisher, Boston Herald-Traveler.

I went to work for the Boston Herald-Traveler in 1936, while I was
still in college, and I have been there ever since except for five and a half
years in the Air Force in World War II. I have been progressively
assistant to the publisher, advertising director and assistant publisher be-
fore becoming president of the corporation and publisher of the news-
papers in 1963. Later in 1963, I was made president of WHDH, Inc., a
wholly-owned subsidiary of the Boston Herald-Traveler Corporation.

In addition to my work, my main hobby is a summer place in Laconia,
New Hampshire, where I get together as often as possible with my three
sons, one of whom is a junior in college, one is a junior in high school
and the other in junior high school.

In 1953, I went back to Harvard for three months as a student in the
Advanced Management Program at the Business School.

HESHMAT HUSAIN-ALI ALA

s
b
S

12 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

MAILING ADDRESS: Industrial and Mining Development Bank of Iran, Tehran, Iran.
TRANSFERRED FROM: Columbia University, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937,

MARRIED. CHILD: one.
occuPATION: Manager, Economics Department, Industrial and Mining Develop-

ment Bank of Iran; professor of economics and economic editor of Kayhan
International.

Ph.D. (economics). Prior to 1957, consultant to the Plan Organization
of Iran. From 1947 to 1955, executive director of the Middle East Re-
search Bureau, Inc., and two years prior to that worked in the U.S. War
Department. From 1942 to 1945 with the Iranian Embassy in Washing-
ton, D.C.

Author of several books, many dozens of monographs, scientific papers
and articles (Fortune, August, 1948). Wrote six days a week on the
“Business Page” of a local daily for the past three years. At the moment,
working on two books simultaneously, one in Persian, another in English.

Active member of Rotary International, classified under “investment
banker,” Iran-American Society, American Economic Association and the
Baha'i World Faith.

Have traveled widely in four of the five continents, including East and
Central Africa, all of Europe and forty-four states of the United States of
America.

For the past twelve years have been working on and off on a piece of
operations research, whose results are summarized in three volumes on
Viability Economics. It will take another ten years at least to complete
this monumental work.

Looking forward to seeing you all in June, 1964.

GEORGE DAVENPORT ALDRICH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 722 Meyer Rd., Hamilton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS; 79 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; LL.B., 1942.

MARRIED: , Alice H. Burrage, July 6, 1940. CHILDREN: Camilla, May 3, 1942;
Alison, Oct. 20, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer, investment banker.
OFFICES HELD: Associate, Choate, Hall & Stewart, 1946-50; vice-chairman of
board, director, Incorporated Investors & Incorporated Income Fund, 1950-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 13

63; director, Atlantic Coast Line Railroad, since 1955, J. Ray McDermott &
Company, since 1956, Pyrotector Company, since 1959; chairman, Heart
Fund, 1948-49: overseer, Boys Club of Boston, since 1950; Class Treasurer,
since 1950, 25th Reunion Finance Chairman, Harvard Class of 1939.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club, Tennis and Racquet Club, and Myopia Hunt Club,
Boston; Links Club and The Brook, New York City.

After graduation, I entered law school in the fall of 1939 to spend three
more turbulent and instructive years in Cambridge. Spice and flavor
were added by successfully persuading Alice Burrage to become m
bride. This probably was the most constructive contact I made in law
school, and while the years since have become no less turbulent, I hope

she feels that our venture into domestic relations has been as successful
as I do.

We have since then added two charming daughters — Camilla, who is
presently engaged to a young Italian gentleman — Sergio Zanarini — of
whom we are both very fond and proud—and Alison, who is in at-
tendance at Bradford Junior College — an institution noted among other
things for its beautiful girls and buildings.

My last year in law school was interrupted by duties with the U.S.
Navy which took up most of the next four years, Service on r10-foot
subchasers and attack transports, sprinkled with some shore assignments,
made my stretch of duty reasonably agreeable— much more so, I am
sure, than that of some of my classmates, Some of the moments were

exciting beyond description and they more than made up for the long
spells of hurrying up to do nothing. .

On returning to Boston, I presented myself to the partners of Choate,
Hall & Stewart, the noted Boston law firm, and after some gentle prod-
ding, they refreshed their recollections as to a former interview and most
kindly offered me a position with them. The next three years were ex-
tremely enjoyable and demanding. I hope I contributed as much as I
received from my associations with such men as Mr. J. L. Hall, Bob
Proctor, Mr. Pengra, Malcolm Stewart, Tom McArdle and J. M. Hall —
to mention just a few.

However, in 1949 I succumbed to the blandishments of Mr. William

A. Parker, who persuaded me to leave the law and enter the world of
finance by way of Incorporated Investors — an investment trust company
he formed in 1925. Here again, I was most fortunate to find myself
associated with congenial bosses — later partners —and doing work that
was most worth while, interesting and diversified. My responsibilities
involved considerable travel, which I enjoy, and brought me in contact
with stimulating people in many allied industries.

Nevertheless, by an odd twist of fate, as I write this report for the
Twenty-fifth Reunion, my future is most uncertain. Due to a number of
unique business circumstances, I shortly will be in the position of being
able to start it all over again. At what? —-I do not know. From a posi-
tion of relative solvency? —I certainly hope so! I can only add that I
don’t recommend this type of business uncertainty for the light sleepers.

_ Home life has been more than pleasant, with many friends close by to

join in the usual social amenities. I spend a lot of time on the golf course

but hope to get back to the ocean some time before long.
I have always been in the Republican fold despite the fact that most of

14 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

those I have supported and worked for have shown a remarkable abili
for getting beaten. Nevertheless, my association with H. C. Lodge

1952 and 1960 will never be forgotten by me, if only for the fact of bei
in close contact with one of the country’s finest leaders.

I hope I am as lucky the next twenty-five!

PAUL JETTE ALEXANDER +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 2202 Fillmore St., San Francisco, Calif. 94115.

DeWITT LOOMIS ALEXANDRE

    

HOME apprEss: Far Hills, NJ.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Engelhard Industries, Inc., 113 Astor St., Newark, N.J.
PREPARED aT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935~1937.

MARRIED: Cynthia Lenox Banks, May 10, 1940. cuitorEN: Anne Lenox, Sept. 7,
1942; Cynthia Banks, Nov. 16, 1944; DeWitt Loomis, Jr., Sept. 17, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Precious metals, trading and fabricating, senior vice-president, gen-
eral administration.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Hills Country Club; Essex Fox Hounds; Essex Club.

From 1937 to 1941 1 worked with the Coats and Clark Company,
worldwide manufacturers of thread of all types. In December, 1941, I
joined the Air Force as a cadet and after a short period of training
became a pilot and second lieutenant. I spent a year in the South Pacific

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1§

with the 13th Air Force flying bombing missions from Guadalcanal and
was awarded the D.F.C, with two oak leaf clusters and the Air Medal
with five clusters. After returning to the States I was assigned to Langley
Field, Virginia, in various capacities and finally terminated my service as
a major in August, 1945.

From 1945 to 1953 I continued working with the Coats and Clark
Company, but in the latter year I resigned to accept an administrative
position in a group of precious metal companies which were later to be
consolidated into Engelhard Industries, Inc. of Newark, New Jersey,
where I am now.

Over the years, my wife and I have traveled a good deal in the U.S.
and less abroad. We have three children and very many good friends,
Our main hobby is golf — except for our elder girl, who is a topnotch.”
rider. We usually vote Republican but are not too hopeful for 1964.

HENRY FREEMAN ALLEN

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 200 Beacon St., Boston 16, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; M.D., 1943.

MARRIED: Emily L. Tuckerman, June 7, 1941. CHILDREN: Emily Tuckerman, June
11, 1943; Rosamond Warren, July 30, 1944; Freeman, Aug. 31, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Ophthalmologist; assistant clinical professor of ophthalmology, Har-
vard Medical School; private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, Trinity Church, Boston, 1947-56, since 1963; trustee,
Episcopal Theological School, Cambridge, since 1961, Brantwood Camp, since
1947, Tewksbury State Hospital, 1953-54; director, Channing Home, Boston,
since 1942; member, Medical Advisory Board, Unitarian-Universalist Service
Committee, since 1963; secretary, 1959-63; chairman, 1964, Section of Oph-
thalmology, American Medical Association; editor, AMA Archives of Ophthal-
mology.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Tavern Club; American Ophthalmological Society;
American Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology; New England
Ophthalmological Society; Brotherhood of St. Andrew.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in professional journals; one patent.

If I were to describe myself as the happiest member of the Class, rhat
would be taken as final proof that I don’t know the score. Nevertheless,
a man with a wonderful wife, three nice children, and more to do than
he can hope to accomplish ought to know that he is lucky. Since the last

16 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Report I have continued in private practice and in teaching, and have
added an editorial job for a professional journal.

During the past two years, with my twenty-year-old daughter (a
student at Antioch College) as my assistant, [ have made two trips to
perform eye surgery at the Amazonian Schweitzer Hospital near Pucal-
Ipa, Peru. This hospital was founded in 1960 by Dr. Theodor Binder and
his wife, Carmen. It serves patients, both Indians and mixed bloods, from
a vast jungle area. This has provided many fascinating experiences and
color slides, In addition, my wife and I have made numerous trips to
South Dakota, to observe, assist and photograph the work of the Epis-
copal Church with the Sioux people, among whom we have made many
friends,

My social convictions have become increasingly liberal, political ones
more independent, and religious activities more vitally concerned with

the spread of world-wide Christianity.

JOHN LEIPER ALLEN

 

HOME apbpress: 3360 Nancy Creek Rd., N.W., Atlanta 5, Ga.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1] Pryor St., S.E., Atlanta, Ga.; John Hancock Bldg., Houston
Street, N.E., Atlanta 3, Ga. (after June Ist).

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Marian’ Emerson, Dec. 21, 1938 (divorced 1956) ; Deborah Smith Gould,
Feb. 16, 1957, cuinpren: John Leiper, Jr, May 12, 1940 (m. Lee Tift, Feb. 9,
1960) ; Elizabeth Lindsay, June 10, 1943; Douglas E., Jan. 30, 1946; Melissa
Hitchcock, Feb. 15, 1958. Ainsley Reed Gould, March 19, 1944; Richard
Nash Gould, Nov. 7, 1945; Deborah Schuyler Gould, May 10, 1948; Schuyler
Coates Gould, Sept. 2, 1951 (stepchildren). GRANDCHILDREN: Elizabeth T.
Allen, Sept. 24, 1961; Charles E. Allen, Sept. 24, 1962.

occupation: Life insurance; general agent for John Hancock Mutual Life In-
surance Company; president, Southern Planning Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: At various times: president, Rivers Country Day School Alumni
Association, Harvard Club of Rhode Island, Providence Life Underwriters
Association, Life Underwriters Association of Rhode Island, General Agents
and Managers Association of Providence, Atlanta Life Underwriters Asso-
ciation, Atlanta General Agents and Managers Association; trustee, D. U.
Corporation, Legal Aid Association of Rhode Island, Commercial Trust Com-
pany (Georgia); director, Providence Boys’ Club, Boys’ Clubs of Metropolitan
Atlanta, People’s Savings Bank, Home for Aged Men and Couples; served
under various titles in fund-raising activities for Red Cross, Community Chest,
Planned Parenthood, etc.; 1939 Class Secretary, 1946-56.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 17

MEMBER OF: Capital City Club, University Yacht Club, Harvard Club of Atlanta;
Commerce Club; Beaver Pond Yacht Club. National Association of Life

Underwriters; Georgia State Chamber of Commerce; Atlanta Chamber of
Commerce.

PuBLICcATIONS: Articles in various life insurance publications.

In June of 1939 I was a graduate of Harvard, married and had a job
(on commission less 5% for training). Today I am still a graduate of
Harvard, married and have a job (with the same company and still on
commission but without the 5% deduction!) ... that is twenty-five
years in a nutshell.

Somehow, though, it doesn’t quite cover three children (plus two
grandchildren), two wives, and how an almost “Proper Bostonian” be-
came a “damnyankee” in Atlanta, Georgia, and loves nearly all that has
happened to him!

Perhaps the easiest starting point is from the business aspect. On the
Monday following a successful day at New London, I started as an agent
in the Boston Agency of the John Hancock. In due course I became the
supervisor in what was then the J.H.’s largest office and remained as such
till Uncle Sam’s Navy beckoned.

In 1946 I returned to the Hancock as a member of the Home Office
Agency Department and was then appointed general agent in Providence
on December 1, 1947. Remaining there until July of 1956, I resigned
and was appointed general agent for Georgia where | still am and expect
to remain.

The choice to head south was a wise and happy one in every respect.
At the time of my move my former agency was producing more business
than Atlanta, but now this has been reversed and we are doing about five
times as much in the South. I take credit for little more than getting into
an area which was beginning to develop and, as our favorable publicity
in national publications will attest, is continuing to grow in an exciting
and challenging fashion. I have been fortunate in attracting capable and
loyal associates and together our business has in seven and one-half years
grown at a rate of twenty-four per cent compounded. I have also kept
my hand in personal sales, largely the tax and pension fields, with re-_
sults consistently in excess of the million-dollar-a-year level.

Possibly my greatest claim to being unique in the life insurance bust-
ness is that I have remained, despite some flattering opportunities, con-
sistently in it and always with the same fine company.

Practically my entire service career was in what | always considered
a private yacht supplied by the Air-Sea Rescue branch of the Navy.
I terminated on good terms with Uncle Sam and certain that our separa-
tion was mutually beneficial! I emerged as a lieutenant with a minor
decoration, no pension and several desirable pieces of foul weather gear.

As with most people in my line of endeavor I have enjoved doing at
least my share in a wide variety of civic activities. Businesswise I have
also been active and have been elected to positions of responsibility by
my associates in both Yankee and Talmadgeland.

The best I have saved for the last —my family! Married in college,
I got off to an early start in raising a family. After quite a few happv
years and some not, I was divorced in 1956, At that time I had three fine
children, a son and two daughters. A year later I moved south and

18 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

almost immediately met a wonderful gal. (To this day the only real
objection I’ve been able to discover is that her brother, father, uncles and
late husband were all Flis! )

Our wedding was delayed because I thoughtlessly contracted acute
pancreatis and was out of circulation for a while. In February of 1957,
Deborah and I were married and her four children and my three were
joined one year later by our daughter whom I still consider the greatest
young lady of any generation! .

As strong believers in independent schools, we struggle to pay tuitions
to various institutions which at the moment include Yale (Johnny is a
senior), Finch (Lindsay, a senior), Smith (Ainsley, a junior), Bennett
(Wendy, a freshman), Lawrenceville (Dick is a P.G.) and our fine day
school here in Atlanta, Westminster (where Debbie is in tenth grade,
Schuyler in the seventh and Melissa in kindergarten). If and when this
load ever decreases we will then do more to support such worthy causes
as 1939's 25th Reunion and the Harvard Fund!

Midway through his sophomore year my eldest — John — decided
that college (at least Yale!) was not for him, so dropped out and went to
work. Before long he married a lovely young thing but neglected to
share his good news with us for nearly a year! In September of 1961,
my first granddaughter was born, followed 365 days later by my first
grandson! In September ’63 Johnny returned to New Haven determined
to be an architect and now plans to enter graduate school next fall.
Number two child, Lindsay, having spent this past summer in Italy
returned to this country and Finch with great reluctance. She has decided
to return to that sunny land after graduation. Number three, Ainsley,
has been studying Russian like mad both winter and summer with her
eye on some aspect of the Foreign Service . . . and so it goes!

To those of you who are not familiar with the real joys of southern
living, at least as exemplified by Atlanta, I recommend it! Climatewise
it can’t be equalled. It is a beautiful city and I know of no other area of
a million people where it is possible to live on a heavily wooded five and
one-half acres and still be twenty minutes from an office in the heart of

the city. We sail on a thirty-three-mile long lake an hour from our door,

can play golf almost any day of the year and don’t own a snow shovel.

It is a bit far from salt water and I have met some small creatures called

“chiggers” but it’s still 99 and 44/100ths per cent wonderful.

By necessity I have rurned into a gardener (or better, weeder). We
sail some, try to get east (Maine) at least once a year, collect antiques
with emphasis on Lowestoft and American things, read a lot and raise
children happily.

Politically, 1 vote with a growing minority of Republicans. Unfor-
tunately, it has more often been “against” rather than “for.” As an in-
dividual I am considerably more tolerant than twenty-five years ago and
am increasingly grateful for and appreciative of the many wonderful
things that it has been my good fortune to experience — not the least of
which was four years in Cambridge with the Class of 1939.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 19

JOHN WATSON ALLIS +
|

4

a

  
  

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5065 Clark State Rd., Gahanna, Ohio.

OFFICE appRESS: Columbus Coated Fabrics Corp., Division of Borden Chemical
Co., 1280 N. Grant Ave., Columbus, Ohio 43216.

PREPARED AT: Columbus Academy, Columbus, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; s.m. (Lehigh Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Elaine McCune, June 27, 1942. cur_prREN: Christine, Aug. 3, 1943; John
Jones, June 11, 1946; David Kaufman, Dec. 26, 1949; Marianne, Aug. 19, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, assistant to the president, Columbus Coated Fabrics
Corporation, manufacturers of plastic film and plastic coated fabrics.

OFFICES HELD: Vestry, St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, nine years; trustee, eight years,
vice-president, 1963-64, Columbus Academy; director, four years, president,
1964, Franklin County Mental Health Association; director, nine years, vice-
president, two years, Alfred Willson Children’s Center.

MEMBER OF: Columbus Club; Rocky Fork Hunt and Country Club; City Club;
Les Cheneaux Yacht Club; American Chemical Society.

Not being a strict conformist, 1939 graduation day was spent on the
Hudson River, heading toward the Great Lakes aboard a sailboat. This
is still my favorite hobby. Lehigh University also contributed to my
education, with courscs in business and chemistry, ending with a Mas-

20 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ter’s degree in chemistry in 1941, in preparation for starting my profes-
sional career at Columbus Coated Fabrics Corporation. World War II
was imminent and this company diverted consumer items to military
products, including the manufacture of barrage balloon cloth. This was
one of my first assignments as a chemist and effected my deferment from
active military service. .

In 1942, | married Elaine McCune who cooperated in the production
of Christine, Jay, David and Marianne. Our family has been both happy
and fortunate but offers no strong candidate for Harvard College, with
the possible exception of Marianne, our youngest daughter. Our home
is in the rural suburbs of Columbus, Ohio, the city where I was born,
and includes accommodations for horses and beagle dogs.

My career in business has been relatively successful but certainly not
brilliant, having progressed through the manufacturing organization to
the position of “vice-president — assistant to the president” in Columbus
Coated Fabrics Corporation. This company was originally privately
owned and employs 1200 people in the production and sale of plastic
sheeting and coated fabrics for table coverings, wall coverings, automo-
tive interiors, luggage coverings and other industrial items. We merged
with the Borden Company three years ago.

My most active community interests are the church, child and mental
health agencies, education and the normal social clubs. I am a conserva-
tive Republican and still believe in balanced budgets.

My philosophy of life compromises a strong spirit for competition,
with a less virulent desire for personal achievement, probably due to a
moderately comfortable financial situation. I believe that a sense of
humor and active hobbies are essential to relieve the emotional tensions of

today’s world. My hobbies include sailing, skiing, horseback riding,
hunting, fishing, tennis and photography. I anticipate a continued active
life, intermingled with vacations and the joy of friendship.

CLEVELAND AMORY
- fe ene “4 pape

  

iad

HOME appress: 150 E. 72d St., New York 21, N_Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 140 W. 57th St., New York 19, N.Y,
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 21

MARRIED: Cora Craddock, 1941 (divorced 1947); Martha Hodge, 1952. cui:
Gaea McCormick, Sept. 25, 1944 (stepdaughter) .

occupation: Author, commentator, lecturer; regular columnist for Saturday Re-
view, TV Guide, Town & Country, McCail’s, etc.; regular contributor of Satur-
day Evening Post, New York Times Sunday Magazine, Vogue, etc.; syndicated
newspaper columnist (Publishers Newspaper Syndicate) and regular commen.
tator for such shows as “Today,” “Open End,” “CBS Morning News,” ete.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Authors Guild of America, Council Authors League
of America; director, Humane Society of the United States, National Catholie

Society for Animal Welfare, New England Society in New York, American
Chess Foundation.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Dutch Treat; Silvermine Golf Club;
Hunt the Hunters Hunt Club and any others not based on social, racial or re-
ligious discrimination.

PUBLICATIONS: The Proper Bostonians, 1947; Home Town, 1950: The Last Resorts,
1952; Who Killed Society?, 1960; editor, Vanity Fair Anthology, 1959;
Celebrity Register, 1959, 1963.

“The New England conscience,” 1 have always maintained, “doesn’t
stop you from doing what you shouldn’t — it just stops you from enjoy-
ing it.” Having been president of the Harvard Crimson at College, 1 had,
of course, nowhere to go, in after life, but down. This has been especially
tough on me since I came from what is known as a “good family.” And
even in Boston a “good family” is one, as all my loyal readers know, that
used to be better. My father, Robert Amory, was Ought Six, and even
he ought to have known better than to author an author son. In any case,
after the publication of my first book, The Proper Bostonians, my entire
family had to take to the hills, and if my father was able to stay in New
York and come back from time to time to Boston for director meetings,
my sister had no such luck and had to go all the way to California. My
aunts also moved west—to Wellesley Hills and Natick. As for my
brother, Robert Amory Jr., he is now, like all good Harvard men, in
Washington. He is Deputy Director of the Budget, where, as I under-
stand it, his job is to divert as large a proportion as possible of the tax-
payers’ money to the Harvard Alumni Association.

I am, I suppose, a satirist— which my wife has defined as someone

. who makes jokes sitting down. I am also, however, a free-lance writer,
and since the statistics of the Authors League of America show that there
are only 250 people in the country who are free-lance writers, I am
extremely proud, in this increasingly conforming world, to be one of
them. If I write regularly for many publications and commentate regu-
larly for a number of television and radio shows, the editors of the maga-
zines and the producers of the shows well know that, though they may
edit me, they do not own me. And they also know, from the occasions
when they have disowned me, that I am not without other outlets with
which, if not to fight back, at least to write back.

Dr. Johnson once said that no one but a blockhead ever wrote for any-
thing but money and with this I heartily agree. Nonetheless, I have never
taken on a single assignment in which money was the primary considera-
tion — or, for that matter, in which the consideration in any wav got in
my way. All this has meant, it is true, some lean years, but despite a
couple of wild, desperate thoughts in that direction, I have never once
stooped so low as to dip into capital.

In 1952 I married Martha Hodge, the daughter of the late actor Wil-

22 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

liam Hodge. She had the misfortune to be born in New York, but I
have been very nice about it. I try to rise above it and rarely mention it,
although of course I have raised both her and my stepdaughter Gaea
doubly carefully, on a diet of a wide variety of Boston homilies — my
favorites being, “Wear it out, eat it up, make do and do without.” Once
in @ while, despite my tact, however, they apparently have enough of
these, and one day my wife said to me, “You know, it is a funny thing.
You're always talking about Boston, but I notice that your father didn’t

marry a Bostonian, your brother didn’t marry a Bostonian, your sister
didn’t marry a Bostonian, and you didn’t marry a Bostonian.” I gave
her my best long-suffering look. “We can’t,” I said. “We have to

spread the culture.”

On the one hand, the New York Times has called my books classics,
and more than one review has called me America’s No. 1 social historian.
On the other hand, another newspaper has called me “a non-book writer
of non-history of non-existent Society.” Actually, at this stage of my
life, neither praise nor censure, titles nor brickbats means very much, and
I have seen too many honored too much for too little not to believe that
Bruce Barton was right when he said, “Nowadays you have to be pretty
nimble to avoid an award.” What does, however, at this stage of my life
mean very much is that, at an age when more and more people seem to
have to settle down to more and more compromises with their original
goals, I have not had to do so, and I am still beholden to no one — no, not
even to Harvard, whose “Society” I have often criticized and whose
Medical School I have, on more than one occasion, taken to task for its
treatment of laboratory animals. But I have also, on many more occa-
sions, supported Harvard and | shall continue to do so. And a Harvard
which can give us the late John Fitzgerald Kennedy will, I hope, not only
always have the support of her graduates but, more importantly, of her
country.

 

 

JOHN PHILIP ANDEREGG

 

HOME ADpreEss: 50 Exeter St., Forest Hills 75, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 247 Park Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, peckecs: A.B, cum laude, 1939; L1.B., 1942.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 23
MARRIED: Etiennette Trouve, Dec. 28, 1946.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Lecturer in law, Columbia University Law School, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Association of the Bar of the City of
New York; Harvard Club of New York.

From Harvard College I went to Harvard Law School, leaving Cam-
bridge in February, 1942, to enter the Navy. The intensity of spirit and
effort in the Law School was in my experience higher than in Harvard
College, and the Law School has now for me largely supplanted the Col-
lege in my recollections of the University.

I spent four years in the Navy and was fortunate in my assignments,
with much interesting work and travel on scientific intelligence missions
in North Africa, the Mediterranean and Western Europe, and with a
short experience of war itself in southern France.

Since 1946 I have practised law in New York, with what have become
and what I hope will continue to be annual visits abroad.

As for my political convictions, I am in favor of greater liberty and less
control in domestic affairs, and for greater assertion by the United States
of its power and position in world affairs. The Europeans with whom I
come in contact do not admire the United States for its desire to be loved

or liked rather than to be right, and it is my opinion as well as theirs that
we are not and shall not be either.

EDMUND VAN GASKIN ANDERSON, JR.

SS ngy Bee SS Ray MDs
- SEER: - a
= . xy oe (8
ly . it
: Ss vee ge 5 :
& vet
By My . ws
Be he Sew ' :

 
 

HOME ApoprEss: River Street, R.F.D. 1, Norwell, Mass. 02061.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stroheim & Romann, 420 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. prcREE: s.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Melcher, Aug. 15, 1942. CHILDREN: William Whiton, Sept. 8,
1947; Caroline H., May 10, 1949; Edmund Van Gaskin, 3d, March 1, 1953:
Ellen M., Aug. 10, 1955; Elizabeth G., March 29, 1958,

OCCUPATION: Salesman.

24 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ROBERT W OODRUF F ANDERSON

 

HOME AND OFFICE abprESS: 1172 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1940.

MARRIED: Phyllis Stohl, June 24, 1940 (died Nov. 28, 1956); Teresa Wright, Dec.
11, 1959. cHiLpREN: Mary Kelly Busch, Sept. 12, 1947; Niven Terence Busch,
Dec. 2, 1944 (stepchildren) .

occupaTion: Playwright; screenwriter.

OFFICES HELD: President, New Dramatists Committee, 1958-59; member, Council
of Dramatists Guild of Authers League of America, since 1954; member,
Committee to Visit Harvard Summer School and Graduate School of Education,
since 1963.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Coffee House Club; Authors League of

merica.

PuBLIcaTIONS: Plays produced and published in book form: Tea and Sympathy;
All Summer Long; Silent Night, Lonely Night; movies produced (for which
4 rote screenplays), “Until They Sail”; “Tea and Sympathy”; “The Nun’s

tory.”

My last two years in college, ] knew I wanted to be a playwright.
But on graduation | just didn’t have the guts to “take the leap.” Also
wanted to get married (to Phyllis Stohl, who had helped excite me about
the theatre). So I settled on the classic “teach and write on the side”
and returned to Harvard to get my A.M. I was working for my Ph.D.
(and teaching in various schools around Boston) when I entered the
Navy as an ensign early in 1942.

There is little to be said about my Navy career except that it gave me
a breather, a chance to write some more plays and a chance to change
directions. That's a lot. I served first on the battle-cruiser Alaska and
later on board the battleship Texas as Flag Secretary for Commander
Battleship Division Five. I saw action at Iwo Jima and Okinawa.

One of the plays I wrote overseas won me an Army-Navy prize, and
this play together with two other plays I wrote in Leyte Gulf (I wrote
very fast in those days!) won me a Rockefeller Fellowship to continue
writing plays when I came home.

From 1946 to 1953 in New York City were years of such activity for
me that I look back at them now in amazement. I wrote plays which
were not produced, I started the playwriting courses at the American
Theatre Wing and taught there three nights a weck; I wrote about a
dozen hour radio and television shows a year and | got involved in every

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 2§

theatrical venture that would have me. It was a tremendously exciting
time, culminating in the successful production of “Tea and Sympathy”
in 1953-

It was, however, also a sad time. My wife, Phyllis, who made her in-
fluence felt in the theatre by her work with new playwrights at the
Theatre Guild and at Music Corporation of America, underwent her
first cancer operation in 1951 (too late), and the next five years were
clouded by the shadow of her ever-expected death which occurred in
1956. Eight books were dedicated to her before and after her death.

“Tea and Sympathy,” of course, changed my life. I have not had a
theatre success in the ten years that have followed, but I have enjoyed
writing my other plays and such screenplays as “The Nun’s Story.” The
problems of a playwright are not of general interest. I can only say that
they are many in our current theatre setup, where production of a play
usually depends on the whims and availabilities (and sometimes even the
tax situation) of actors, directors, and theatre owners. You can make a
killing in the theatre — but not a living.

In 1959 1 had the great good fortune to marry Teresa Wright, who
has brought me joy and instant fatherhood with her son and daughter.
I do not feel I have even started on my life or my career. We keep
looking for the house in which to settle, and I keep hoping I can get
some kind of continuing flow of work from my desk to the stage and
screen. We shall never find the house and each play and film will con-
tinue to be a struggle, but aside from being dismayed by the pervading
tastelessness and gracelessness of our “muck-it-up-for-a-buck” age I am

very glad to be alive and doing work which excites me more and more
each day.

WILLIAM GRENVILLE ANDERSON

    

HOME ApDpRESS: Farm Road, Sherborn, Mass,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1 Court St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: S.B., 1939.
marRiED: Anne Lea Ditmars, June 19, 1937. cHiLoreN: Margot, Sept, 24, 1946;
William Pope, Dec. 13, 1949; Grenville, July 3, 1952.
OCCUPATION: Trustee — investments — self-employed.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, John G. Alden & Co, Inc, Boston; president,
Charitable Relief Association, Cincinnati.

26 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

MEMBER OF: Tennis & Racquet Club; Somerset Club; Harvard Club of Boston;
MT sheet Club (Antigua); Cruising Club of America; Union Club (New
ors).

As one of the first to be married in our Class (June, 1937), my last two
years at college were rather separated from most of you. Cissie and I,
however, had a most rewarding two years in Cambridge during our
undergraduate days. After graduation came a year and a half at M.LT.,
studying naval architecture, whence directly into the Navy until 1946.

Then came the decision as to where to live, and we chose the town of
Sherborn, where we hope to remain forever. 1 have my office at home
where I attend to some investment work and act as trustee for several
discriminating souls. I also have my drawing board at home and do
some yacht design work, as well as in Boston with the firm of John G.
Alden.

Having loved sailing all my life, 1 was able to do some ocean racing
after the war, to cruise in Maine with Cissie each summer, where we
still have a place at Biddeford Pool. This past year we took our fourth
Wind Song to the Windward Islands and spent several months on board.

Our children, though late in arriving, have been a joy. The two boys
are not great students and may never live in Harvard Yard (except this
June). Like our 50th Reunion that remains to be seen. But please come
to our 25th—the chairman and all his faithful workers are looking
forward to seeing you.

JACK DUNLAP ANDREWS

 

son.

PREPARED AT: University of Minnesota High School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939,

marRieD: Betty Louise Johnson. CHILpREN: Ellen Kay, Jan. 14, 1943; Karen May,
March H, 1946.

DIED: Jan. 9, 1957, Galesville, Wis.

wipow: Mrs. Jack D. Andrews, 1405 Boyce Rd., Hopkins, Minn.

Jack Dunlap Andrews spent four years with our Class. He was a resi-
dent of Eliot House and while an undergraduate was business manager of
the Red Book and the Guardian. He had not been heard from since the
time of our Tenth Anniversary Report when he wrote that he was con-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 27
tinuing his education at the University of Minnesota and as group leader
in the University of Chicago’s Great Books program. At that time he
was historian with General Mills, Inc., working on an extensive history
of the American milling industry with particular reference to General

Mills.

OLIVER ANDREWS, JR.

  

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Jay St., Canton, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Lawrence University, Canton, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Governor Dummer Academy, South Byfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1939; a.m. (Middlebury
Coll.) , 1947; PH.D. (McGill Univ.), 1956.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Whorf, Sept. 15, 1940 (divorced 1952); Ann Wright Cotton,
Sept. 4, 1952. cHitpReEN: Oliver, 3d, May 24, 1943; Elizabeth, March 25, 1948;
Rosamund Capen, January, 1951; Michael Capen, Sept. 5, 1956; Anthony
Wright, June 25, 1958; Ann Roberta, Sept. 12, 1945 (stepdaughter) ; Geoffrey
Hill, April 27, 1947 (stepson).

occuPATION: Professor of French and head, Department of Modern Languages, St.
Lawrence University.

OFFICES HELD: Professor, department head, state, regional, national representative,
American Association of Teachers of French, 1948-62; master, Governor
Dummer Academy, 1939-43; assistant professor. Bates College. 1948-52;
assistant professor, 1956-59, associate professor, 1959-60, Purdue University;
professor, St. Lawrence University, since 1960; executive director, Charles
Irwin Travelli Fund, Boston, since 1961; consultant, U.S. Office of Education,
since 1962.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Teachers of French; Central States Foreign
Language Teachers Association; New York State Foreign Language Teachers
Association; American Association of University Professors; National Educa-
tion Association.

PUBLICATIONS: A dozen articles, reviews, notes in professional journals on language
laboratories, contemporary France, language teaching, literary figure inter-
views, etc.

If memory serves correctly, 1 was invited to give up selling canned
hash and become a language teacher the night before my first class — at
Governor Dummer Academy! That vear (1939) and the following I
made all the mistakes and then some, but I have loved my job and my
profession and have counted my blessings since. Teaching and adminis-
tration in educational circles have been immensely rewarding, as has
being part of the complete revolution in modern language teaching and

28 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

learning. Having gone from Harvard to Governor Dummer to Bates, to
Purdue and back to the small college —St. Lawrence University —I
believe that I have found what I like best in my field. The small college
will need continued financial support from benefactors forever and its
continued existence is vital to our society.

I have had the good fortune to be able to combine much travel and
residence in France with my job, as well as to serve as consultant to the
U.S. Office of Education which gets me out of the north country (New
York) fairly often. Summers include traveling and long periods on the
Maine coast.

Since 1961 I have inherited a job as executive director of the Travelli
Fund, a charitable organization whose major work involves making a
college education possible for needy, promising young people. Our work
is highly individual in nature and I manage to confer at least annually
with each of the 100 or more young people whom we assist financially.
It is particularly exciting to see how much these people are willing to
put into their own education. Many of our scholars think nothing of
working sixteen hours daily during vacations to provide what they can
themselves!

My second marriage has been a very happy one. My wife and I share
francophilia, antique collecting, love of theatre and many, many little
things that make life worthwhile. I consider myself fortunate to the
extreme, optimistic about both my personal future and that of the world.
I am not happy about America’s protectionist approach to everything
from tariffs to old age, think that we'll have to change or be less than a
first class influence in the world in the next two decades, but believe
that American education is preparing a second half century population
which will be more than equipped to face coming problems.

    

NCIS HENRY APPLETON, III

     

i _&
HOME appress: Elgin Hereford Ranch, Elgin, Ariz.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Peace Corps, % U.S. Embassy, San Jose, Costa Rica.
PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pbECREE: a.B., 1939,
MARRIED: Ariel Bryce, Aug. 15, 1941. cutionen: Peter Bryce, July 11, 1943; Mare
Francis, March 29, 1945; Lynne, March 25, 1948; Lee, Sept. 19, 1950.
HARVARD SON: Marc Francis Appleton, ’68.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 29

occupaTION: U.S, Peace Corps Representative, Costa Rica (temporary) ; Hereford
cattle breeder, farmer, real estate broker in southern Arizona.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Arizona Hereford Association, Arizona Association for the
Handicapped, Tucson Festival Society, Planned Parenthood Clinic.
MEMBER OF: Tucson Racquet Club; Mountain Oyster Club.

Since the Twentieth Reunion Report, we have dug deeper into the
soil and mountains of wonderful Arizona by expanding our farm and
ranch activities into the registered Hereford business. It is a fine addition
to a pleasant, busy, country life, and going to market with the product
(young bull calves) takes us more and more over the entire West. This
is nice work if we can hold on to it.

Arizona has been good to us. Our children seem to be growing up
rapidly, ably, and in excellent health and spirits. By way of trying to
repay good fortune through public service, we decided, in October, 1962,
to accept a temporary position directing a Peace Corps program over-
seas. We were given the Costa Rica assignment, leading several PC col-
leagues to ask, “How much did you pay Sarge for that fine country?”
Answer, nothing. We were just lucky, and anyway Sarge is an incor-
ruptible Yale man.

We are proud to be associated with the Peace Corps Volunteers, who
daily refute those sweeping criticisms of U.S. youth. Their unself-
conscious willingness to help is giving other nations their first look at a
new kind of American, with more than a hint of the early pioneer spirit.

Our political views remain independent. We can reach a rolling boil
over businessmen and bureaucrat alike. Our religion, initially Episcopa-
lian but non-existent in the formal sense, is pleasantly confused by life
in a Catholic country and our daughters’ attendance at the Escuela
Metodista. -

In Costa Rica, our children are sharing a rich experience with us.
Bryce, a Yale junior, spent an interesting summer here. Marc, accepted
for Harvard 1967, asked for and received a deferred entrance with the
Class of 1968 in order to spend a year at the University of Costa Rica.

After high school in Costa Rica, Lynne and Lee will take worth-while
memories to an Arizona boarding school.

Our social viewpoint seems so broad we may be obtuse, but increasingly
we find friends more through current common interest than from not-so-
current common backgrounds. On civil rights, we do feel that the
Negroes are right and that many of the rest of us have been barely civil.

We'll return to Arizona at the end of next year or early 1965, so our
bad luck will be missing the Twenty-fifth,

30 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

    
 

JAMES MURRAY ARENSBERG

  

ed B.

Boch ete,
HOME AbpREss: 1226 Murray Hill Ave., Pittsburgh 17, Pa.
OFFICE abpreEss: 1404 First National Bank Bldg., Pittsburgh 22, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEecREES: A.B., 1939; LL.B., 1942.
marrieD: Betty Abry, Aug. 19, 1939. cHrnpReEN: Eve Murray, Jan. 28, 1942; Hope
Denmead, Nov. 8, 1944; Elisabeth Abry, Oct. 22, 1947; James Maynadier,
June 12, 1950; Amanda Ennalls, April 21, 1952; Kate Eveleth, April 18, 1954.
occupaTiON: Lawyer; partner, Patterson, Crawford, Arensberg & Dunn.

Since graduation from college and law school and return from Italy
after World War II, I have lived and worked here with my family in
Pittsburgh, where I was born and raised and where we are all, I believe,
quite content.

During the summer, my wife and children (as did she and I as chil-
dren) spend their time on the eastern shore of Maryland. When I go
back there, as 1 do when I can, and should I go back to Harvard, I do
and could but recall: Wir kommen nie wieder so jung zusammen.

GEORGE ARENTS, III

 

HOME Appkess: 4110 Kiaora St., Miami 33, Fla.

OFFICE apbkESS: Luigi Chinetti Motors, Inc., 780 llth Ave., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, BR.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1937,

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 31

MARRIED: Divorced 1951. cHitpren: Emily Ann, November, 1941; Dorothy Yorke,
March, 1943; Jane Ginter, November 24, 1944. cranpcuiLp: Leilani Ann
Lynas, Sept. 30, 1962.

occuPATION: Importer; partner in Luigi Chinetti Motors, Inc., North American
distributors for the Ferrari automobile.

MEMBER OF: Pilotes des vingt-quatre heures du Mans; Soaring Society of America;

New York Yacht Club; Storm-trysail Club; St. Nicholas Society; Huguenot
Society.

After leaving Harvard, I promptly plunged into commercial aviation.
This involved running the Armonk airport in Westchester County, New
York, while as one of the few (at that time) qualified instrument pilots I
would come to Palm Beach or Miami in the winter, from which bases I
could easily charge tremendous prices for a night flight on instruments
up to the New York area. We were also very successful as distributors
for the Luscombe airplane, at that time the only all metal light aircraft
on the market.

The war produced for me and many others like me one of the rare
cases of logical utilization of qualified personnel known in anybody's
armed forces; a Navy uniform with wings on it and a slowly increasing
number of stripes (I ended up as LCDR) in Naval Air Transport
Service. I flew DC-3s around the country and finally DC-4s around the
Pacific. Our cargoes varied from wounded boys to Coca-Cola, and
toilet paper to admirals.

In 1948 my marriage went completely on the rocks, painful at the
time, but best for all in the long run, so for a few years I lived on my
yawl and simply wandered between Connecticut and the West Indies.
For many years, however, Pd been fascinated with sports cars and
racing, so in late 1954 I started at this myself. By 1957 I had driven the
twelve hours of Sebring and the twenty-four of LeMans, both in
Ferraris.

Then that August, the 24th to be exact, I drove one of the very rare
four overhead camshaft twelve-cylinder cars at the then new road racing
course at Bridgehampton. It was the one time I’ve ever had the number
“13” on my car. When the dust settled and the car lifted off me I had an
impacted hip, seven broken ribs, two of which punctured my night lung,
and assorted other damages, With the heavy pneumonia which promptly
settled in, this almost killed me.

It has always been my contention, however, that an intelligent man can
profit from any experience regardless of how painful it may be. During
the many painful months of my recovery I had ume to think and plan.

Firstly, 1 always want to be able to look at myself while I shave, so I
called my friend, Luigi Chinetti, and told him that 1 wanted to start
racing again, but this time in the Granturismo class. Accordingly |
placed an order for a “Berlinetta” coupe for racing and a convertible for
road use. Luigi called on me in the hospital, said that he was lonely all
by himself, and would I join him as a parmer in the business? This was
the best therapy imaginable. At the same time I dispatched one of mv
closest friends to look for a house in the Coconut Grove area of Miami.
What he found is now much enlarged and my permanent home.

The year 1958 brought me great joy, for with a torally different mental
outlook, perhaps aided and abetted by crutches, out of thirteen starts my
Ferrari and I chalked up thirteen wins, After each race | would take the

32 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

taped numbers off the car, not have it washed and then park it in front
of the best restaurant in town. Aside from being vast good fun this had
a salutary effect on our business, At that time the car was also develop-
ing into the superb and absolutely trouble-free road vehicle which it is
today.

In 1959 I was fourth overall at LeMans with thirteen finishers out of
forty-five starters, while in 1960 I was fifth overall with twenty-seven
finishers at an average of 105 mph for the entire event, pit stops and all.

The climax of my racing career came in 1961 when I won the Grand
Prix of Pescara (Italy) for Granturismo cars. This is one of the last real
road courses in the world, some sixteen miles through the Italian
countryside. There is one downhill section with a series of very high
speed bends, both psychological hazards which I studied with extreme
care. This was what turned the trick for me. Even though I was driving
an indigenous car, the local Italians were furious.

Later that year the thought struck me that some of the old camaraderie
which had left aviation after the war might well be found in a sport
which had always fascinated me; soaring. Now less than two years after
starting, 1 am most proud to have all three of the possible diamonds on
my gold international badge. These mean: a flight of over 300 kilo-

meters to a predeclared destination, an altitude gain of over 5000 meters,
and finally a distance flight of over 500 kilometers.

Next springtime when the usual series of dry cold fronts (this phe-
nomenon is the source of John Steinbeck’s The Grapes of Wrath) start
coming through the panhandle area, [ shall have a crack at the present
Russian record for two seaters which involves the 515 miles between
Moscow and Stalingrad. I shall also try for the two-place goal record.

Next May I plan on taking my new American-built Schweizer model
2-3z high performance two seater over to Europe to show the colors at
some of their highly developed soaring centers.

There will, however, be a brief pause enroute, as Luigi, one of the two
men who have won at LeMans three times (1932 and 1934 with Alfa-
Romeo and 1949 with one of the first Ferraris), wants us to drive one of
our new luxury four-litre, twelve-cylinder four-seater coupes in that
event. The whole thing is really hilarious in concept, for we plan to stop
long enough just before the finish to have the car washed, but is also the
best possible publicity for our magnificent car.

ladda

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 33

CHRISTOPHER BROOKE ARMAT

| eceres “erenan wommrmeyer remy mee “yoy

  

*

‘me

ae

~.#

cR

A “hay

¢

a i
\

 

HOME AbpRESS: 4724 Alton Pl., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20016.
OFFICE ApprEss: U.S. Dept. of Justice, Washington, D.C. 20530.
PREPARED AT: Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936. DEGREES: LL.B. (National Univ.), 1939; m.p.1. (ibid.),
1940.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

MEMBER OF: Chevy Chase Club; University Club; Lawyers Club; Sports Car Club
of America; Porsche Club of America; American Legion.

In the summer of 1936, while contemplating the possibility that I might
not be allowed to return to Harvard, I explored other educational pos-
sibilities. At that time admission to the bar of the District of Columbia
required little more than a passing grade on the exam. No undergraduate
degree was needed. Accordingly I enrolled in the law school of National
University (later absorbed by George Washington University) and ob-
tained my LL.B. in 1939 and an M.P.L. (Patent Law) in 1940. I received
an appointment as an attorney in the Antitrust Division of the Depart-
ment of Justice in 1941 and there I have been ever since.

My lifelong love of the sea led me to the Navy in 1941, but appeared
to be frustrated by an assignment to the duller aspects of Naval Intelli-
gence. In 1943, however, I was fortunate enough to be accepted for
training for P.T. Boat duty. For the remaining two vears | served in the
boats in the South and Southwest Pacific and briefly in the Caribbean.
The high point of that career was being given command of a combat
squadron, M.1T.B.Ron Ten in the Seventh Fleet. The boats were a never-

ending fascination, furnishing suspense and excitement even in the ab-
sence of the enemy. The officer corps of the P.T. Navy had a pretty high
concentration of Harvard men, including not only the erstwhile skipper
of the 109 boat, but also our Classmate “Pete” Goodwin.

The field of antitrust law is very nearly fascinating enough to consti-
tute a hobby. My spare time hobbies, however, include photography, ten-
nis, skiing, hunting and sports cars. Some of you may remember that
weird French sports car, a Chenard-Walcker, that was owned jointly by
Malcolm James MacLeod and myself, so my interest in sports cars has a
long history. At the moment | have two Porsches and a 1955 Packard,
which even I must admit is at least one too many cars for a bachelor,

34 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

I am still hopeful that I may yet alter that bachelor state. Such opti-

mism may ultimately be justified in twenty or thirty years when the
woman hired to push my wheel chair marries me for my insurance.

FREDERIC SYLVESTER ARMSTRONG, JR. t

  

LAST MAILING appRESs: American Embassy, APO 85, New York, N.Y.

HENDRICK KIP ARNOLD

 

HOME appREss: 29 Howard Ave., Rutland, Vt.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Mindy Ross Dresses, Rutland, Vt.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Patricia Akin Henry. cHILoren: Patricia, Jan. 15, 1943; Deborah, Aug.
28, 1946; Hendrick Kip, Jr., Sept. 18, 1950.

occupaTion: Manager, general offices and data processing.

This will be a very academic June for our family. Our elder daughter,
Patricia, will be graduated from Connecticut College. Our younger
daughter, Deborah, will be graduated from high school and our youngest,
Kip, will finish junior high. These events will undoubtedly all conflict

somehow with the dates of our Twenty-fifth Reunion, but I still intend
to be on hand — in all four places,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 35

DANA WINSLOW ATCHLEY, JR.

ATR tA a HM Bt ge

a “oN |
L™. ing . {
, y '
v= J > =" - }

 

a : ef |
ao Re " *
4 e ‘ % 4
: . # 4 4 . : . :
Met V wile sa

HOME appreEss: Concord Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Microwave Associates, Inc., Burlington, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1940, DEGREE: S.B., 1939(40).

MARRIED: Barbara Welch, Aug. 26, 1939 (divorced 1953); Barbara S. Payne, May
1, 1954, cHILDREN: Dana Winslow, 3d, April 15, 1941; Mary Babcock, Oct. 24,
1942; Elizabeth Ross, July 23, 1946; Sarah Ross, Sept. 21, 1950; Marion W.,
May 4, 1955; Abigail A., May 9, 1956; Cornelia P., Aug. 13, 1959; Katherine
S., April 12, 1963.

OCCUPATION: President, Microwave Associates, Inc., electronics manufacturing.

OFFICES HELD: President and director, Microwave Associates, Inc., since 1952;
director, Transonics, Inc., since 1961, Samson Fund, since 1960, De Cordova
and Dana Museum, since 1963, Antenna Systems, Inc., 1960-61, Industrial
Electronics Supply, Inc., 1957-58, Techbuilt, Inc., 1956-57; incorporator,
Middlesex Savings Bank, since 1963.

MEMBER OF: St. Botolph Club; Eastern Point Yacht Club; American Radio Relay
League; Institute of Radio Engineers; Appalachian Mountain Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Two patents, four technical articles.

    

My life has been largely influenced by my interest in electronics which
started as a hobby in 1933 and has developed slowly into a career. At
college my courses were, in the first three years, directed toward medi-
cine. However, in the last year 1 attempted somewhat unsuccessfully to
redirect my curriculum toward electrical engineering and physics. This
resulted in my obtaining rather a broad but superficial scientific back-
ground which, by luck, has turned out to be most useful.

Between graduation and the war, | was briefly employed as a research
engineer by Sylvania. I applied for a naval commission the day France
fell and the following February went on active duty as an ensign. Aly
five-year naval career was largely involved with antisubmarine warfare
fire control, electronics and countermeasures and the early stages of mis-
sile guidance. Most of the war was spent on the staff of the Naval Re-
search Laboratory at Anacostia, D.C., with side trips to the Pacific and
other more attractive areas. I ended the war as a lieutenant commander.

I returned immediately to Sylvania in the role of government sales
manager for their then new Electronics Division in Boston. The Smythe
Report published by the Atomic Energy Commission redirected my in-
terests to what was then a fast-growing field of nuclear instrumentation.
Hence, in 1947 I joined Tracerlab, Inc., first as sales manager and later

36 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

as director of engineering. I left in 1951 to assist American Broadcasting-
Paramount Theatres, Inc., in their efforts to find a participation in the
electronics industry. Through their financial assistance I joined my pres-
ent company, Microwave Associates, Inc, in 1952 as president. Since
that date I have been fortunate participating in the growth of the sophisti-
cated microwave components field here and more recently internation-
ally.
My first marriage, resulting in four children, unfortunately ended in a
divorce in 1953. 1 consider myself very lucky to have married a delightful
girl in 1954 and since have added four more children to the world. Rais-
ing one son and seven daughters has its own set of problems, but so far
the son has graduated with honors from Dartmouth and is now studying
for a Master of Fine Arts degree at Yale. The daughters range from the
nursery through the senior year at Wheaton. I am rather pleased not to
be a grandfather at my 25th.

My side interests involve extensive cruising in a Triton sloop in the
summer, some skin-diving, moderate skiing as a family group, and, of
course, I am still active as a radio amateur under the call WiHKK. The
De Cordova Museum in Lincoln also occupies much of my spare time.
Politically, | am ambivalent. As president of a corporation I have the
normal strong conservative leanings of a businessman fighting for profits.
However, having come of age under Roosevelt, I still have many general
idealistic liberal urges, I wish I could be rich and liberal like some of our

Presidential Candidates.

WILLIAM BRIDGMAN ATKINSON

 

BORN: July 12, 1917, Minneapolis, Minn. parents: Frederick Grant Atkinson,
Dorothy Bridgman.

PREPARED aT: Blake School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1937,

MARRIED: Dorothy B. Atkinson.

piep: Feb. 12, 1964, Minneapolis, Minn.

wipow: Mrs. William B. Atkinson, P.O. Box 101, Big Fort, Mont.

William Bridgman Atkinson spent two years with our Class. He was a
rancher in Shepard, Montana. He was survived by his wife.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 37

DOUGLAS BENTLEY AUFFMORDT

    
 

HOME ADDRESS: 37 Ave. Georges Mandel, Paris, 16éme, France.

PREPARED AT: Le Rosey, Rolle, Switzerland; Ecole des Roches, Verneuil, France.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Evelyn Carolan, 1941 (divorced 1948); Josefina Gomez Revenga, 1960.
CHILDREN: Frances, 1942 (m. Charles Evans, 1960) ; Elena, 1960. GRANDCHILD:
Charles Douglas Evans, 1962.

OCCUPATION: Manage property.

MEMBER OF: Burlingame Country Club, Burlingame, Calif.; Travellers’, Paris;
Nuevo Club, Madrid.

WILLIAM WEAVER AUSTIN

HOME ADDRESS: 119 Heights Ct., Ithaca, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Music, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Great Falls High School, Great Falls, Mont.; Central High School,
Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; a.M., 1910; PH.pD., 1951.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Jane Hallstrom, 1942. cHiLpREN: Ann Elizabeth, Oct. 26, 1944;
Margery Jane, July 10, 1955.

occupation: Professor of music, chairman of department, 1958-63, Cornell Univer-
sity.

OFFICES HELD: President, College Music Society, 1960-62.

MEMBER OF: American Musicological Society; College Music Society; Society for
Ethnomusicology; Music Library Association; Music Teachers National Asse-

38 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ciation; Music Educators National Conference; International Society for
Music Education; AAUP; American Guild of Organists.

puBLicaTions: Articles in Musical Quarterly, Music Review and various symposia
on music,

The work I chose in 1939 — teaching music in college and graduate
school — gives me great satisfactions and endless dissatisfactions. I keep
learning more, plaving better and writing a little better. My ideals of
knowing music, making it, using it among the other arts and science,
and guiding people to what they need of it are as remote as ever from
my practice, The opportunity to keep trying, alongside some magnificent
colleagues and willing students, seems to me an amazing privilege.

I am amazed also by the Marshall Plan, the Common Market, In-
dia, Israel, the Stevenson campaign of ’52, Martin Luther King, Mrs.
Kennedy, and everything that nourishes hope in the midst of the many
horrors that constantly tempt us to despair.

1 should like to recommend music—many kinds of music — as
sources of amazement and hope, more than consolation or distraction or
prestige. But I shall be glad if the demands for distraction and prestige
continue to make possible my continuing to learn.

* RICHARD CONANT BABB

 

Nek
Born: May 6, 1918, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Hugo Webster Babb, 1x.s., ’16,
Persis Conant.
PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLECE! 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., 1939.
DIED: Killed in active service overseas, July 16, 1943, with R.C.A-F.

During his college years Babb lived at home in Cambridge. He at-
tended classes at the Sorbonne in Paris, France, in the summer following
his sophomore year at Harvard. In 1941 he enlisted in the Royal] Canadian
Air Force, received his wings in November, 1942, and shortly thereafter
went overseas. He attained the rank of sergeant pilot. He was survived
by his parents.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 39

EDWARD SPENCER BABCOX, JR.

IRE OM RSI IR aN pi nner

      

HOME appress: 2887 Attleboro Rd., Shaker Heights 20, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Western Reserve University, Cleveland 6, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Western Reserve Academy, Hudson, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Marilynn Sumner, Smith ’40, April 20, 1946. cHmLorEN: Christine, May
23, 1947; Edward Spencer, 3d, Sept. 22, 1948; Ruth Marie, Oct. 30, 1950.

occupation: Editor and development writer, public relations, Western Reserve
University.

Babcox Publications, Inc., Akron, Ohio, 1939-42; special agent,
Counter-Intelligence Corps, U.S. Army, Hawaii and Japan, 1942-45; vice-
president-editorial, Babcox Publications, Inc., 1946-54; graduate study,
Oberlin College, 1954-55; reporter, financial desk, late Cleveland News,
1956-59 (left Cleveland News about a year before it was taken over bv
the Cleveland Press); registered representative, investment banking firm,
1959-1960; now with Western Reserve University.

 

HOME Appress: 215 Highland Ave., Newtonville, Mass.
OFFICE AppREss: 44 Hunt St., Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B. 1939,

40 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

MARRIED: Janice Rose Daugherty, Dec. 27, 1941, Omaha, Nebr. cHILDREN: Pamels
Keyes, March 4, 1943 (m. John Swink Carlson, Jr., Aug. 10, 1963) ; Gretchen
Burdic, Oct. 8, 1946; Louis Fabian, 3d, April 10, 1950; Robert Deland, July 7,

1954,
occuPATION: Portrait photographer; executive vice-president and treasurer, Bach-

rach, Inc.

1 spent thirty-eight months in the Navy as an aerial navigator during
World War Il. The rest of my working life before and since the war
has been in the family business. As each generation of male Bachrachs
comes along it becomes increasingly difficult to stay out of photography.

As I mentioned in our 15th Anniversary Report, the most intelligent
thing I ever did was to marry Janice. As a result, my personal life has
always been happy. We are blessed with four hectic but healthy children
whom we hope to raise to become useful citizens eventually.

Church and community affairs have always been absorbing to me al-
though I am not out every night of the week at some “committee meet-

ing.” I don’t share the opinions of some of my classmates that the country
is going to the dogs, despite high taxes, the Russians and the Chinese. I
do think Kennedy was the right choice for the country in 1960 and am
glad I voted for him.

Music, gardening and reading continue to be my main recreation,
although I hope to do more extensive traveling in the future. We were
so taken by a short sojourn in Italy three years ago that I have started
studying Italian to prepare for our next trip. We hope our boys will

want to go to Harvard, but they will have to be a lot smarter than their
old man to make the grade these days. Am looking forward to our 25th
next June, and hope to bring the whole family. My sixteen-year-old
daughter tells me “it will be a real gas.”

ELLIOT COWDIN BACON

 

HOME AppRESS; 2643 Hidden Valley Rd., La Jolla, Calif.

OFFice appress: Taylor & Co., P.O. Box 31, La Jolla, Calif,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGHEE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Handomy Suffudy, July 20, 1951, cutoren: Aurelia B. Wheby, July 14,
” occuPATION; Specialist in the underwriting and sale of municipal securities.

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

41
OFFICES HELD: Former member, American Management Association, American
Marketing Association.

MEMBER OF: Financial Analysts of San Diego; La Jolla Country Club; La Jolla

Beach and Tennis Club; A. D. Club, Cambridge, Mass.; Hasty. Pudding-
Institute of 1770.

In twenty-five years my career seems to have come the full circle.
Following graduation I joined as lowest of the low the underw riting
section of a brokerage house. A year later Uncle Sam beckoned, and 1
entered his destroyer Navy and remained there for five and one-half
years. Next came two years in a bank, then thirteen years in industry.
Finally in 196 I returned to the investment banking field, this time the
underwriting of municipal bonds. Making the round was full of wonder-
ful experiences, and I feel my liberal arts education was mighty helpful.

Life in Southern California is great. The climate is superb. We live in
a little community | of 15,000 people and are three minutes from the office

by car and four minutes from the country club. Golf the year round —
twice a week when it can be managed, which isn’t often. Swimming daily.
Rubber bridge willingly, duplicate bridge only if escape is impossible.
We are rabid fans of the San Diego Chargers, the AFL’s best as this is
written.

Our principal regret is that 39ers and families visit these parts rarely.
We miss familiar faces.

PHILIP HAXALL BAGBY

 

BORN: July 16, 1918, Richmond, Va. parents: Philip Haxall Bagby, Mary Allen.
PREPARED AT: Episcopal High School, Alexandria, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939, DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

DIED: Sept. 20, 1958, New Canaan, Conn.

After college Bagby spent about ten years with the American Foreign
Service of the State Department and then did some graduate work at
Harvard in anthropology. At the time of our Fifteenth Anniversary Re-

port he wrote that he was taking a doctor's degree at Oxford. He was
survived by his mother,

42 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

 

HOME AppRESS: 110 Johnson Ave., Los Gatos, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Los Gatos Times, Saratoga Observer, Royce Street, Los Gatos,
Calif.

PREPARED AT: Los Gatos High School, Los Gatos, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: S.B., 1939.

makriep: Barbara Jean Gibson, Feb. 3, 1944. cHirpREN: Jeanne, Jan. 1, 1945;
Carolyn, Sept. 27, 1946; Cayle, Oct. 17, 1947; Hyland Erle (John), Jan. 19,
1953.

OCCUPATION: Sports editor. :

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Times-Observer Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Late Watch; Holiday Circle; Northern California Golf Writers
Association.

After graduation I worked for the Oakland Post-Enquirer, on the edi-
torial and sports staffs. Was drafted in 1942 and served with headquarters,
Presidio of San Francisco, information and education department at Oak-
land Regional Hospital and in the Persian Gulf Command for one year,
I&E. Prepared for I&E at Washington & Lee University. Was married
at Presidio of San Francisco Chapel before going overseas. First daughter,
Jeanne, was born while I was in Persia.

My father died while I was in service, and after discharge I published
his weekly newspaper, Los Gatos Mail-News, for four years and in 1950
we sold to the Times Corporation for cash and stock and I have been
sports editor of that newspaper and secretary of the corporation ever
since.

About my only club connection is with the Late Watch, a group of
San Francisco area newspaper people who meet every April at the time
of the 1906 earthquake and fire.

Right now my main interest is children, one in college and two in
high school about to enter college and a ten-year-old son whose grammar
school struggle doesn’t indicate a college future,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 43

RAY PALMER BAKER, JR.

    

HOME ADDRESS: 655 Park Ave., New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lord, Day & Lord, 25 Broadway, New York 4, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Troy Country Day School, Troy, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; LLB.,
1942 (46) .

MARRIED: Alma Nicoll, Nov. 17, 1942. cutLp: Mary Messinger, July 17, 1952.

occuPaTiIon: Lawyer; partner in law firm, Lord, Day & Lord.

OFFICES HELD: Former president, Windham Children’s Service; secretary, Anglers
Club of New York; member, Payne Whitney Psychiatric and Westchester
Division Committees, New York Hospital; member, board of directors,
Federation of Protestant Welfare Agencies, and Greer, a children’s com-
munity.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; American and New
York State Bar Associations; Union Club; Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club;
Anglers Club of New York; New York Skating Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Law review articles and pamphlets in the field of taxation.

I have had a busy and satisfying life in New York City learning mv
trade as a tax lawyer and taking my place in the responsibilities of the
community. As I remember it, | enjoyed my career in the Navy, which
postponed my third year at the Harvard Law School until the war was
over. My wife and I both look back upon that year with special
pleasure. The interests which we have in common include our young
daughter and trout fishing. As a relief from legal writing, I have written

a book about the pleasures of the latter and hope that it will be published
this year.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

CHARLES ALEXANDER BALDWIN

      

© "
HOME Aporess: 454 Atlantis Drive, Satellite Beach, Fla, 32937.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Pan American World Airways, Guided Missile Range Divisio
Patrick Air Force Base, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., 1939.

marriep: Lorna Keith, 1939 (divorced 1957); Jean Rast, Nov. 22, 1960. CHILDREN
William Henry, 2d, May 17, 1940 (m. Caroline Harris, Sept. 21, 1963)
Scott Keith, March 4, 1943; Christie, Feb. 7, 1946; Charles Alexander, Jr

April 2, 1947; Charlton L., Feb. 12, 1949; John, Nov. 17, 1950; J. Thomas, 2d
June 17, 1952; Elizabeth, Nov. 1, 1953; Karla.

HARVARD SON: William Henry Baldwin, 2d, ’61. .
occuration; Captain, USNR, retired; logistic planner at Cape Canaveral with
PanAm’s Guided Missile Range Division.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.; Patrick Yacht Club; PanAm
Management Club; Republican Club of South Brevard County.

Twenty-five years should produce a lengthy narrative. If in the tell-
ing, time seems to have become compressed this is partly a reflection of
the remarkable speed with which the years have passed.

It didn’t take long after being called to active duty in February, 1941,
for me to decide that [liked the Navy and so I chose to make it a career.

For five years — until March, 1946— the destroyer USS Ericsson pretty
much dominated my life. Under the impetus of World War II, assign-
Ments to the various billets in the ship’s organization were of fairly short
duration, were accompanied by swift promotions and led to command of
the ship for the last eighteen months of the war.

Peacetime assignments were varied and interesting. They included
command of two more destroyers, two tours in Washington, a tour in an
aircraft carrier division staff, command of a mine squadron and finally
command of an assault cargo ship. Promotions came and the better
assignments were received along with our Naval Academy contempo-
raries, and occasionally in advance of them.

On looking back over this account and the years, I cannot help but
conclude that a Harvard education is an excellent preparation for almost
any profession. And I must admit that my respect for the contributions
which Harvard makes to one’s capabilities has steadily increased. These

contributions are more than just knowledge; they include attitudes and
thought patterns which approach a philosophy and a way of life.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 45

The first of January, 1963, marked the start of a new career, upon
which I embarked after much soul searching and finally the decision to
retire from the Navy. But now we are confirmed Floridians and very
happy in a new home with just about all one could want. Complete re-
moval from salt water is unthinkable —so it is more than coincidence
that our back yard is mostly canal with our boat moored along side at
lawn’s edge.

It has been with regret that I have missed previous Commencements
and Reunions. In fact my only visit to Cambridge since the early 1940's
was to attend my eldest son’s graduation in the Class of 61. Only a
catastrophe will keep me away in June, 1964.

MAITLAND BALDWIN

   

HOME AppREss: 10413 Lloyd Rd., Potomac, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 9000 Wisconsin Ave., Bethesda, Md.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937. DEGREES: M.D. and c.M. (Queen’s Univ.), 1943; Ms.
(McGill Univ.) , 1952; Diploma in Neurosurgery (ibid.), 1952.

MARRIED: Shirley Alexandra Lewis. CHILDREN: Joan Hope, July 6, 1953; Frances
Esther, 1961; Raymond Charles, 1963.

occupation: Neurosurgeon; clinical director, National Institute of Neurological
Diseases and Blindness, National Institutes of Health, Bethesda, Md.
OFFICES HELD: Clinical professor of surgery, Georgetown University, Washington,

D.C.; chairman, Surgical Administrative Committee, National Institutes of
Health.

MEMBER OF: Cosmos Club; Harvey Cushing Society: American College of Surgeons
(fellow); New York Academy of Science (fellow); American Academy of
Neurology (associate member).

PUBLICATIONS: Approximately fifty-four professional publications.

After leaving college my career pattern has followed the long ap-
prenticeships required for neurological surgery. After a surgical house
officership at the Montreal General Hospital (1943), there was a brief
pause of three years’ duration with the Naval Amphibious Forces Pa-
cific. Thereafter, a return to Montreal and the Department of Neurology
and Neurosurgery at McGill (1947). Five and a half vears later, after
receiving some picces of paper from McGill, the College of Surgeons
and the Specialry Board, I was away to the University of Colorado, as
assistant professor in neurological surgery. After an active clinical and

46 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

academic year there, I came to the National Institutes of Health, as chief
neurosurgeon. Since then time has passed in the fabled rates while J have
been engaged in clinical investigation and teaching.

The job (at NIH) has had me travel in the U.S., Canada, Europe and
the Soviet Union as well as Egypt, but there is time for some sculpting,
camping and occasionally such oddities as sports parachuting, I have
never been active in politics and maintain a unilateral connection with
the Episcopal Church. As others, I look forward to the interests and
challenges of the future. I like living.

WILLIAM HENRY BALDWIN,

JR.

       

  

HOME Appress: 34 Green Ave., New Canaan, Conn.
OFFICE ADpRESS: National Foreign Trade Council, 10 Rockefeller Plaza, New York

20, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: New Canaan High School, New Canaan, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Eleanor Mead Griesemer, June 5, 1948. cHr~pREN: Deborah, Nov. 1,
1949; William, Jan. 20, 1951; Douglas, April 28, 1953; Susan, Sept. 24, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Public relations director, National Foreign Trade Council.

MEMBER OF: Public Relations Society of America; Overseas Press Club of
America; Industrial Publicity Association; Harvard Clubs of New York and

New Canaan.

It has been an uneventful and happy twenty-five years, including
three years of newspapering in Bridgeport, Connecticut, and Springfield,
Massachusetts; a sedentary war, spent mostly in Miami and Washington,
with a brief assignment in Manila and Tokyo, as an army chemical
warfare public relations officer. Three more years with the Associated
Press in Baltimore and Annapolis; married an AP gal from Washington
and settled down to live happily ever after.

I’ve been in public relations in New York since 1950, mostly with trade
associations, and have spent untold hours commuting on the New
Haven Railroad from my old home town. We live just fifty yards from
the high school from which I went to Cambridge. I walk to the station
on weekdays, to church on Sundays, bark at our four fine children on
alternate days, and generally avoid adventures of any kind. I am trying
to have them by proxy by writing mystery stories in my spare time.
Hope to have more to report in 1989.

--- shih scales ns diiron ceili Ll Matis tA ahi ial a,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 47

DAVID WILLS BALLARD

  
 

Fiiad ce ania Wnt ite ‘an ae TO oon

HOME ApDpRESS: Old Pound Road, Pound Ridge, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Time-Life International, Time & Life Bldg., New York 20, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Peterborough High School, Peterborough, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Muriel Alice Pitt, Nov. 8, 1947. cHimLpREN: David Pitt, Feb. 17, 1950;
Bruce Pitt, Feb. 6, 1953; Harriet Louise, Dec. 4, 1954.

occupaTION: Magazine and book publishing; sales director, Time-Life Inter-
national.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

After graduation I went to work with Time, Inc.; am now sales direc-
tor of Time-Life International which publishes the international edi-
tions of Time and Life and of Life Books for circulation throughout the
free world outside North America. From 1943 to 1946 served as war
correspondent and branch manager in Honolulu, supervising printing
and distribution of Time’s pony edition in the Pacific Theatre of opera-
tions. Stationed afterwards in Sydney and in Cairo, both then also Time
printing locations. Now travel periodically for sales development and
promotion work with overseas offices and distributors; have visited much
of Latin America, Europe, Asia, Australia, not yet Africa.

My wife, Muriel, is a former Life film editor. Our three children,
David, thirteen, Bruce, ten, and Harriet, eight, attend the excellent local
public schools. We enjoy family life in our rural hilltop home; don’t
mind the daily commuting to New York, fifty miles and one and a half
-hours each way. Community activities: trustee, Pound Ridge Com-

munity Church; also work in School Association and Citizens’ Committee
for Public Schools. Politics: liberal Republican.

2° ag EA ET NTP oe OOO EN UO

48 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

SIDNEY REED BALLOU

 

HOME ADDRESS: 38 Highland Ave., Lexington, Mass. 02173.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dewey & Almy Chemical Division, W. R. Grace & Co., 62 Whitte-
more Ave., Cambridge, Mass. 02140.

PREPARED AT: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.; | Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Persis Lovejoy Abbot, Sept. 19, 1943. cHi~pREN: David Reed, Aug. 24,
1945: Edmund Wheeler, May 25, 1948; Stephen Rockwood, Aug. 30, 1951;
Melinda- Carol, Nov. 11, 1957.

occuPATION: Research and development engineer.

Went on active duty with the National Guard in 1940. Moved into
the Army Air Corps four months after Pearl Harbor — communications,
then radar and finally electronics countermeasures. My wife went back
for her senior year at Oberlin after our marriage in 1943.

After the war, worked five years for Raytheon in various capacities,
including a year in Cleveland, Ohio, as a sales engineer. Returned east
in 1951 to the Dewey & Almy Chemical Company (now a division of
W.R. Grace & Company), where I am at present, Research engineering
actually is a convenient label for an activity of many facets in wide
variety, always stimulating and, incidentally, lots of fun. Surprisingly,
one even is paid for engaging in it.

The family started to grow in 1945 and continued to increase at inter-
vals until there were three sons, with a daughter at the end of the parade
who began first grade in September. The eldest son began his freshman
year at Oberlin at about the same time, with the other two in high
school and junior high. The whole gang is on skis, and we accordingly
try to plan some family vacation in February or March in the mountains
of New Hampshire or Vermont.

The three older ones play oboe, violin and cello respectively and can
hold their own in chamber music sessions which hold forth from time
to time. Their mother plays the viola at said sessions and I still take the
French horn out of the case now and then.

I’m still working the amateur radio license I picked up between classes
in 1937 (WiKKN, for those interested) but have too many other

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
things taking my time to work it hard. The interest of the boy

vived my own in photography, but I still remain the only radi
the family.

EDMUND MORK BAMBERGER

    

HOME ADDRESS: 140 E. 81st St., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United Merchants and Manufacturers, Inc. 1407 Broadway,
York 18, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Franklin School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; S.M. (Colu
Univ.), 1942; cpa. (New York State), 1944.
UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Chief assistant to Tax Department Director-Assistant Treas
United Merchants and Manufacturers, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Former neighborhood commissioner and district camping repre
tative, Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: Beta Gamma Sigma — National Scholastic Business School Fratern:
New York State Society of Certified Public Accountants.

For the past twenty-five years, I have worked in various phases
accounting including the public accounting and the industrial field. F
sixteen years I have been employed by United Merchants and Man:
facturers, Inc., a large publicly held corporation which is a manufacture
and distributor of textiles with commercial factoring and financin
affiliates and operates 365 Robert Hall clothing stores. My responsibil:
ties included tax research and planning, working with internal revenu
agents, reviewing and/or preparing tax returns, including federal anc

state returns, for all fifty states. In addition, I coordinate all activities

of the pension plan accounting division and satisfy my lifelong love of
mathematics with actuarial computations. In essence, I have made my

vocation an avocation. In fact, I am frequently referred to as “Mz.
Univae.”

I maintain an active tax practice independent of my corporate work
but with no conflict of interest, and several years ago was appointed as
co-trustee of some very substantial trusts.

; My hobbies are bridge, chess, reading, swimming, dancing and travel-
ing.

0 HARVARD CLASS OF 1
5

EDMUND WALTER BANAS

 

HOME abDprREss: Rock Harbor Road, Orleans, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Holyoke Wholesale Grocery Co., Holyoke, Mass.
PREPARED aT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEcREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1941,

MARRIED: Isabel J. Szewczynski, 1945. CHILDREN: Susan, Feb. 14, 1948; Richard,
May 1], 1954.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, clerk of the corporation, wholesale grocery company.
OFFICES HELD: Director, Holyoke Wholesale Grocery Company, 1946.

BERNARD BARBER

 

i
i
j

     

*
HOME ADDRESS: Braeside Lane, Dobbs Ferry, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Sociology, Barnard College, Columbia University, New
York 27, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B, summa cum laude, 1939; A.M. 1942;
PH.D., 1949,

marriep: Elinor Gellert, Sept. 25, 1948. cHmpren: Leslie Marianne and Christine

Ruth, Sept. 15, 1950 (twins); Philip Gellert, March 13, 1953; John Robert,
April 20, 1961.

occuraTION: Professor of sociology and chairman of Deparument, Barnard College,
Columbia University.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Eastern Sociological Suciety, 1962; president, board
of trustees, Dobbs Ferry Library, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: American Sociological Association; History of Science Suciety;

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 51
Society for History of Technology and Culture; American Association for
Advancement of Science, etc.

PUBLICATIONS: Science and the Social Order, The Free Press, 1952, reprinted by
Collier Books, 1962; Social Stratification, Harcourt, Brace, 1957; edited, with

Walter Hirsch, The Sociology of Science, 1962; many professional journal
articles and reviews.

During the last twenty-five years the pattern of my life has probably
been not unlike that of many of our classmates who have settled in the
academic world: some graduate work, the war, back to graduate school,
and then a career of teaching and research and all that goes with it. After
graduation, I spent a year as Sheldon travelling fellow in Europe and
Mexico. The next year I was a student and teaching fellow at Tulane
University. The following year, | was back at Harvard to complete my
graduate course work. There were then four years in the Navy, which
included a year and a half on a cruiser in the Pacific and service as lend-
lease officer in the Middle East and Africa. After the war, back to Har-
vard again, where I wrote my doctoral dissertation and was a tutor and
teaching fellow, residing again in Winthrop House where I had lived as
an undergraduate.

In 1948, with my new wife, whom I had met at Radcliffe where she
was taking a Ph.D. in history, I went to the Sociology Department at
Smith College, where we stayed for four years, both of us teaching.
Then, and finally, I went to Barnard College, Columbia University,
where I teach undergraduate and graduate courses and do research and
writing. I also participate, like others of my kind, in various professional
associations and journal activities, and I have lectured at several different
universities and other places, including the Salzburg Seminar and the
Oak Ridge Institute of Nuclear Studies.

My wife and I enjoy our children and we like to garden, travel and
hike. (This summer, by lucky chance, we hiked in the Smokies, the
Rockies and the White Mountains.) But most of all we are involved with
our activities and friends in the academic world, with side excursions
only for local affairs such as the Dobbs Ferry Library and the Red Cross.

I have always felt exceedingly lucky that ‘I was able to go to Harvard.
It has made my life better in any number of ways.

ABRAHAM CLIFFORD BARGER

52 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HOME ApprEss: 14 Orchard Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harvard Medical School, 25 Shattuck St., Boston 15, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Greenfield High School, Greenfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; m.p., 1943.

marrieD: Claire Basch, June 6, 1943. cHiLpren: Craig, Jan. 31, 1948; Curtis,
April 15, 1952; Cheryl, Oct. 22, 1949.

occupation: Professor of physiology, Harvard Medical School; consultant in
physiology (medicine), Peter Bent Brigham Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Medical Fellowship Board, National Research Council,
1955-62; president, Massachusetts Society for Medical Research, since 1956;
Town Meeting Member, Brookline, Mass., 1958; Commonwealth Fund Fellow,
1959-60; consultant in cardiovascular physiology, WHO, 1960; Physiology
Study Section, National Institutes of Health, since 1960; member, board of
editors, American Journal of Physiology, 1960-62, Proceedings of the Society
of Experimental Biology and Medicine, 1960-62; member, 1961-63, chairman,
1962-63, Publications Committee, American Physiological Society; associate
editor, Circulation Research, since 1963; president, Elbanobscot Foundation,
1962.

MEMBER OF: American Physiological Society; Society of Experimental Biology and
Medicine; The Endocrine Society; Massachusetts Society for Medical Re-
search.

puptications: Publications on cardiovascular-renal physiology.

After four good years at Harvard Medical School and a medical in-
ternship at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, 1 headed for Camp Barke-
ley in Texas and an Army career as a battalion surgeon. But the course
of my life was changed by the character and quality of my Harvard
College education; the Army decided that my research experience at the
Fatigue Laboratory — part of my tutorial work — made me more valu-
able as an investigator working on the problem of protection against the
cold environment. I spent the war at the Climatic Research Laboratory
and never did get overseas.

After my release from the Army I returned to the Brigham for the
completion of my residency. As part of the program I moved across the
street for a year of study on the cardiovascular system with Professor
E. M. Landis in physiology but never went back to clinical medicine. I
found research and teaching so rewarding that I shifted my allegiance to
physiology. Occasionally I became nostalgic for the wards and the

warmth of the doctor-patient relationship. Fortunately, I find the same

kind of satisfaction in my association with the medical students and re-
search fellows. Each year they renew my faith m the future of mankind.

As a citizen I have tried to do what I can to make the world a little
better and a little less stressful— from town meetings to SANE. I’ve
been involved in educational problems, aid to handicapped children,
physical and emotional, and more recently in trying to help Harvard

Medical School raise fifty-eight million dollars needed to maintain the

standards of excellence. As a physiologist and chairman of the Animal

Care Committee of Harvard Medical School, I have also had to contend

with the constant harassment of the antivivisectionists. For years we in

Massachusetts have fought a defensive battle trying to prevent the pas-

sage of restrictive legislation which would have seriously handicapped

physiological research. Finally, in 1956 we decided to take the initiative.

As president of the Massachusetts Society for Medical Research and

with the late Mike Neville, former mayor of Cambridge, as my political

mentor, I helped organize a state-wide campaign which with the help

.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 53

of the clergy, industrial leaders, labor, veterans, physicians, educators
(Mr. Pusey played a key role), etc., secured the passage of legislation
enabling medical schools to obtain animals from the pounds. The law
has worked so well that the opposition has stopped introducing an an-
nual bill on Beacon Hill. Unfortunately, the antivivisectionists, defeated
again and again at the local and state level, are now shifting their activity
to Washington with an assist from one of our misguided classmates.

The family spent the year 1959-60 in Copenhagen while I was on sab-
batical leave. The Danes were so wonderful that Claire and the children
now definitely have divided allegiance. For part of the year I made a
survey of European medical education and cardiovascular research, visit-
ing medical schools and laboratories all over Europe including Russia,
Czechoslovakia and Hungary. As a representative of Harvard I was
warmly received behind the Iron Curtain. As a result of the friendships
made there we have been able to start an exchange program and now
have had research fellows from the three countries — an example of the
role the biological sciences can play in improving international relations.

Much to Claire’s and my delight the children have not expressed any
desire to go off to boarding school; apparently they still enjoy our com-
pany. Craig is a sophomore at Noble and Greenough working out his
aggressions on the football field; Cheryl, a freshman at Winsor, sub-
limates hers in her painting and classical guitar, Curtis, in the sixth grade
at Park School, is showing them how the Danes play soccer and still
has enough energy to blow a mean trumpet. As the children grow up
perhaps Claire and I can fulfill our yearning for travel.

HAROLD FREDERICK BARNARD, JR.

    

HOME ADDRESS: Stanwich Lane, Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kendall Co., 111 W. 40th St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., 1939; M.B.a., 1942.

MARRIED: Caroline Wisner, Sept. 12, 1942. cHILpREN: Patricia Ann, Sept. 14, 1944;
Harold Frederick, 3d, Sept. 4, 1946.

occupation: Director of marketing, Textile Division, Kendall Company, manu-
facturers,

OFFICES HELD: Director, Textile Distributors Association, New York City, since
1959; district chairman, Community Fund, Greenwich, 1962; regional chair-

54 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

man, Brunswick School Fund Drive Committee, Greenwich, 1962-63; member,

Fathers’ Committee, Pine Manor Junior College, since 1963.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Weavers Club, New York City; Milbrook

Club, Greenwich, Conn.

My first year out of college was spent teaching at Suffield Academy
in Connecticut. There with me was Classmate Bill Mulliken who is now
a prep school headmaster. While I enjoyed my experience very much I
decided against teaching as a career.

I returned to Harvard and graduated from the Business School in
1942, Upon graduation I joined the Navy, married, and spent most of
the next few years at sea, literally and figuratively.

In late 1945 I started with the Kendall Company in the Boston area
where I lived and worked until transferred to New York in 1959. All
of my business experience has been in sales and marketing and at present
I am director of marketing of the Kendall Company, Textile Division.

Right now the family is thinning out with daughter Patricia a fresh-
man at Pine Manor, and son Fred due to start college in the fall of 1964.
I play golf, squash and bridge for relaxation and am reasonably active in
community and school affairs. Politically, I would describe myself as
an Independent Republican — whatever that may be. I enjoy my work,

love my wife, and even find commuting on the New Haven tolerable.

JOHN BARNARD, JR.

   

SAE Ne nape Saba Wa ets oS

HOME abpress: 5 Clapp Rd., Scituate, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 200 Herkeley St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED at: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, bEGREES: A.B., 1939; LL.B., 1942147).

maxkiep: Cornelia Howard Bridge, Sept. 4, 1943. cHitpren: Felicity, Nov. 3, 1944;

Jeremy, May 12, 1948.
occupation: General counsel, Massachusetts Investors Trust and Massachusetts

Investors Growth Stock Fund, Inc.

Harvard Law School, 1939-40. New England Telephone & Telegraph
Company, 1940-41. Army of the United States, Corps of Engincers,
1942-45. Harvard Law School, 1946-47. Gaston, Snow, Motley & Holt,
$2 Devonshire Street, Boston, 1947-63.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 55

EDWARD JONES BARNES

{ .

   

HOME ADDRESS: R.D. 3, Gettysburg, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Park School of Buffalo, 4625 Harlem Rd., Snyder 26, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Waldorf Schule, Stuttgart, Germany.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: s.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Nadya Tschaikowsky, Aug. 5, 1936. cHiLpreNn: Alexandra, June 14, 1939
(m. Fredrick Paul Norton, Aug. 11, 1961); Peter Alarik, July 17, 1942;
Alfred Renshaw, July 27, 1945; Timothy Burr, June 11, 1946; Susan Deborah,
July 24, 1951. cranpcHitp: Bryan Alexander Norton, May 20, 1963.

OCCUPATION: Science Teaching at Park School of Buffalo.

Characterize a life: — biologically, in the children granted a marital

pairing of Western and almost Eastern, second-generation White Russian
DNA; economically, in the esoteric pleasure derived from one new-
bought 756 Packard sold in ’61 for fifteen dollars, bought — following on
ten years of family-farming in milk— out of a small inheritance: the
only venture into the new-car field; professionally, in late-coming self-
confidence as a teacher of high school science — albeit teaching out of a
philosophical well-spring basically skeptical of both Western scientific
positivism and Western deism,; autobiographically, by a sense of frustrat-
ing ingrownness relieved both on the farm and later by earthy do-it-
yourself adventures with things, adventures which often provoked the
familial comment: “he’s at it again”; spiritually, by tenaciously held
faith, dating back to high school years profoundly meaningful for an
unrooted adolescent in contact with the work of Rudolf Steiner in
Stuttgart and the Waldorf Schule, faith that the human individuality
essentially avails itself of what we know in our present scientific con-
sciousness as ‘nature and nurture’: vehicle and means for an incarnation;
hence, in sum, a life spiritually characterized at times bv fatalistically
warped default and at times by abiding joy in having, with spouse, be-
come the parents of five children, one of whom, retarded though he be,
illuminates in ways various and delicate, realms of value we others often
fail to dig deeply enough in — yet as real as light and darkness,

There are roo acres near Gettysburg to which we hope
thus far of teaching, to return permanently: — acres in
planted, much grew, and much remains to do,

after nine vears
which much was

56 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

EDWARD SHIPPEN BARNES, JR.+

        

JOH

HOME appress: 3506 Hawick Lane, Kensington, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2022 Columbia Rd., N.W., Washington 9, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Sidwell Friends School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., 1939; LL.B. (George Washington
Univ.) , 1946.

marrigp: Isabelle H. Ogilby, March 10, 1941. cHiLpren: Margaret Isabelle, Dec.
6, 1941; John Lester, 3d, Aug. 25, 1944,

HARVARD SON: John Lester Barr, 3d, 66.

occupation: Lawyer — partner; real estate agent — self-employed.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, board of trustees, Sidwell Friends School; treasurer,
Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.; Chevy Chase Club, Chevy Chase,
Md.; Bar Association, Washington, D.C.; Augustus P. Gardner Post 18,
American Legion and Sons of the Revolution, both Washington, D.C.

We still live in the same home which we built over fifteen years ago
and my life is little changed except in one important respect. Both
Peggy and Jack have been away at college for the last few years. Peggy
is a senior at Vassar and Jack is a sophomore at Harvard, They have
both proved to be good students and are doing well. Their absence only
serves to prove what a great pleasure and privilege it was to have them.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 57

I have recently become treasurer of the Harvard Club of Washington.
1 am looking forward to a closer contact with Harvard affairs through
this activity.

HERBERT LUTHER BARRETT, JR.

   
 

BORN: June 30, 1917, Norwood, Mass. PARENTS: Herbert Luther Barrett, LL.z.,
12, Maude Tilden.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.
pieD: Sept. 7, 1943, Norwood, Mass.

Herbert Luther Barrett, Jr., was a resident of Winthrop House during
his upper class years and was coxswain of the Winthrop House crew.
Following graduation he attended Harvard Law School for a year and
then became associated with the Martha’s Vineyard Shipbuilding Com-
pany in connection with the building of boats for the Navy. He was em-
ployed there at the time of his death. He was survived by his parents.

- NATHANIEL HORTON BATCHELDER, JR.

   

HOME ApprEss: 3073 N. Hackett Ave., Milwaukee 11, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Milwaukee Country Day School, 6401 Santa Monica Blvd.
Milwaukee 17, Wis.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

58 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

YEARS 18 COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., 1939; a.m. (State Univ. of Iowa),

i.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Burnquist, Dec. 25, 1940. cuHILDREN: Martha Hope, March 18
1942; Susan Blaine, July 13, 1943; Nathaniel Horton, 3d, Dec. 20, 1945;
Caro] Elizabeth, Feb. 16, 1950; Edward Weare, Aug. 6, 1955. ’

occupaTion: Teacher of English.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Planning Commission, Indian Spring School, Birmingham,
Ala., 1948-51; head, Williston Academy Lower School, Easthampton, Mass.,
1951-58, Park School, Indianapolis, Ind., 1958-60.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Wisconsin; Wisconsin Association of Teachers of
nglish.

After graduation from college I moved into the teaching field as an
apprentice at Tabor Academy in Marion, Massachusetts. I had met
Betty Burnquist, Wellesley ’39, of Fort Dodge, lowa, at the end of fresh-
man year. We were engaged in the spring of 1940 and married in De-
cember of that year. In the fall of 1940 I began a four-year stay at
Loomis School, Windsor, Connecticut, teaching English and coaching
fencing and intramural football. .

My war service was brief — two years with the Navy as a teacher of
seamanship, damage control, and small boat handling at NTS(I), Holly-
wood, Florida, and later as Fducational Services Officer aboard USS
Proteus (AS—19) — with a few months between the two at Armed Guard
School, Shelton, Virginia.

Following the war I did my graduate work at the State University of
Iowa and moved as a teacher to the Missouri Military Academy in
Mexico, Missouri. Two years later the invitation to jom the Planning
Commission of the Alabama Educational Foundation to found what is
now the Indian Springs School near Birmingham proved irresistible.

A longing to be in New England again was satisfied when the chance
came to head the Lower School at Williston Academy, Easthampton,
Massachusetts. Six years later the Williston trustees decided to disband
the Lower School as such to expand the Academy itself, We stayed an
additional year —helped with the transition—then moved to Indian-

apolis, Indiana, as head of the Park School. Park didn’t work out, for
us anyway, and we welcomed Warren Seyfort’s suggestion that we
join the faculty of Milwaukee Country Day where again I am teaching
English, advising, and coaching intramural sports.

If | had it to do over again, I don’t think I'd do things much differently.
Pve had the fun of knowing and working with a lot of very good people
—kids and adults. I’ve learned a good deal, I think, and hopefully I’ve
taught something beyond just English. Certainly I couldn’t have had a
finer wife nor more satisfactory children. I love New England but am
glad to have seen something of the world beyond it. I am confident of
a spiritual reality and of man’s increasing ability to grasp and compre-
hend it. | believe our next best step is promoting people’s understanding
of each other — to this end we have had an American Field Service son
from Santiago, Chile, have a son of our own now in Diepholz, Germany;
sent a daughter to Sweden last summer on the Experiment in International
Living; and hope to send another daughter, who chaperoned AFS foreign
student tours in our country last summer, abroad next summer.

Life at its best is to me the keen enjoyment of demanding experiences
and the living out of the best ideals we can find — honest work, con-

nn | .

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 59

siderate dealings with one’s fellows, a real effort at understanding dif-
ferences, charity toward error, the joy of cooperation, deeper self-under-
standing, integrity toward others and toward one’s self, and real love and
enthusiasm for people. I believe that man is learning to control his worst
and that his best is unlimited. As Thoreau put it: “I know of no more
encouraging fact than the unquestioned ability of man to elevate his life
by conscious endeavour.”

WALTER JACKSON BATE

     

HOME appReEss: Mack Hill Road, Mont Vernon, N.H.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 3 Warren House, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Morton High School, Richmond, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., surmma cum laude, 1939; a.M., 1940:
PH.D., 1942,

OCCUPATION: Professor of English, Harvard University.

PUBLICATIONS: From Classic to Romantic, 1946; Criticism: the Major Texts, 1952;
The Achievement of Samuel Johnson, 1955; Prefaces to Criticism, 1959; John
Keats, 1963; editor, Yale Edition of Samuel Johnson and Works of Edmund

urKe,

My last fifteen years have been devoted almost entirely to writing, re-
search, and teaching (with the addition of a seven-year period of part-
time administrative work). Like others in that kind of situation, where
one’s recreation is the same as one’s work and where so much of one’s
work consists of writing, I find myself unable ever to say what I’m
doing without falling into a long rambling summary of everything I’ve
been trying to talk or write about it, long and rambling because one
starts to use the opportunity to qualify or try to improve on what one’s
already said. That’s the occupational disease.

I suppose I could say that my principal hope, for years, has been to
discover means by which we can pick our way through the large writ-
ten record of man that we call literature, and to evaluate it — means by
which we can see it for what it is worth and profit from it. The in-
terest, in other words, is in the humanistic use of the humanities. I
sometimes feel that I’m gradually making a little headway. But usually

the effect is to reduce one back to size and toward increased humility.
Meanwhile I have tried to teach English literature in all periods, focus-

60 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

sing especially on the eighteenth and nineteenth centuries, on the history
of criticism, and on the theory of literature generally,

My principal hobby has been farming — unsuccessful farming, I
hasten to add. For a few years I actually had a dairy farm of sorts, and
then, after continual loss, decided to grow rocks (as you can easily do
in New England) and a few simple vegetables.

It’s a sign of advancing age, I suppose, that I often look back to the
1930's with nostalgia. It seems to me that, difficult though the times were
in so many ways, there were recompenses, including the fact that an un-
usually large amount of whatever we got had to come through our own
initiative. And it’s a further consolation that so much that we learned
to value has been a help, and will continue to be, to the generations fol-
lowing. I think that here our record has been very good (by “our” I
mean that of people now aged forty to sixty), as good as that of any
generation that has preceded us since the period 1770-1800.

 

HOME appress: I Earhart St., Gander, Newfoundland.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bates Machine Works, Ltd., P.O. Box 579, Gander, Newfoundland.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936.

MARRIED: Gladys F. Hinds, Dec. 18, 1940. cHitp: Nathan Edmund, July 8, 1941.

OccuPATION: Principal owner, president and managing director, Bates Machine
Works, Ltd., general machine shop and maintenance and repair service.

OFFICES HELD: Rector’s warden, Anglican Church of St. Martin, 1962; president,
Lions Club, 1963-64; executive, Chamber of Commerce, 1961, all in Gander.

MEMBER OF: Masons; Lions.

At age seventeen left Harvard, skippered my own boat to Labrador
working with Grenfell Mission. Returned to U.S. in fall of 1936, studied
radio, returned to Newfoundland summer, 1937, and became interested
in fishing cooperatives. Spent next twenty years on Change Islands, ap-
proximately fifty miles east of Gander, where I sponsored and then
managed a fisheries cooperative. With serious decline in fishing in-
dustry moved to Gander in 1957 and started present effort, a general
machine shop in the spring of 1958. Have been hard at it ever since. I
was married in the autumn of 1940 to a Newfoundland girl; we have one
son, aged twenty-two, now attending the University of New Brunswick.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 61

With regard to social convictions, I guess I am growing old and con-
servative. I feel that the young people are on the whole less self-reliant
than our generation. I also feel that state socialism in its many and varied
forms within the U.S. and Canada is going too far. Being still an
American citizen I have, of course, taken no active part in Canadian
politics, either federal provincial or municipal. My religious convictions
are simply a Protestant Episcopal upbringing which brought me to the
Anglican Church in this country. | feel we are entering an age when
Christian unity is more important than ever before and the Church
leaders realize this. I don’t accept all the details of our Church’s teach-

ings and preachments, but neither do I feel that this leaves me a heretic!
I also have serious doubts as to whether or not Christianity can contain
western man.

JOHN LEACH BAUM

    

HOME ADDRESS: 70 Hamburg Turnpike, Hamburg, N.J.
OFFICE appRESS: New Jersey Zinc Co., Franklin, N.J.
PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Augusta T. Gallagher, June 24, 1940. cHi_LpreEN: Dwight Gallagher,
Dec. 24, 1942; Peter Nicholas, Sept. 30, 1945,

occuPATION: Resident geologist, New Jersey Zinc Company, metal mining.

OFFICES HELD: Councilman, Borough Council, and Water Commissioner, Water
Department, Hamburg, N.J.; vice-president, Sussex County, N.J., Historical
Society; trustee, Franklin-Ogdensburg Mineralogical Society; member, Ham-
burg Planning Board; deputy director, Hamburg Civil Defense.

MEMBER OF: Geological Society of America; Mineralogical Society of America;
Franklin-Ogdensburg Mineralogical Society; Audubon Society of New Jersey.

PUBLICATIONS: About a dozen articles on geology, mineralogy, local history, and

lectures on same before adult schools, hobby groups, professional organiza-
tions and booster clubs.

During spring vacation of my senior year I went job hunting and
found an opening which I have been occupying since graduation, A
geologist for a mining company helps get the lead out, or in my case,
zinc, iron and manganese, or he goes looking for these and other goodies,
such as uranium, titanium and non-metallics, All these I have sought and,
in retrospect, I have had a good time doing it. In short, I am a prospector,
and one of the few who have been able to put down roots in one place

62 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

for so long a time. After a sober year in the bachelor engineers’ board-
ing house, no mean achievement, | topped this by marrying my college
sweetheart. Concerning this joint venture, it is enough to say that our
sons have long been disappointed that we never fight like other parents
of their acquaintance and that we can communicate without speaking
aloud. This last, they observe, is pretty sneaky.

The war years led to frantic activity in the metal business with at-
tempts to increase production and to locate additional reserves in such
unlikely areas as New England or the Canadian bush country, where
victory came unknown to me, stranded as I was by a pilot who quit his
job after landing me. Today there is a mine at that lake, and a rail-
road from the coast, and I no longer feel bad about the black flies or
seven days on snared rabbit and pancake mix left behind by a prospector
the previous year. There have been other compensations too, Imagine
being sent to examine the beach deposits from Sandy Hook to Cape
Canaveral, and not in winter either, or a two-month job near Lakewood,
New Jersey, during the season, when the food is out of this world, or a
summer bossing a diamond drilling crew in the White Mountains, with
paid weekends from Cape Cod to Boothbay Harbor.

For a long time I took no part in club or civic affairs, but ultimately I

found myself wondering what was going on behind the local scenes,
This was perhaps a mistake, because I found out for whom the bell tolls,
although I am never sure why it is ringing. As head of the water depart-
ment in my town, I receive messages from ladies when the water goes
off at mealtime. As a council member, I am informed the taxes are too
high and that the roads need repairing. Irate developers seek a variance
from the Planning Board, and Civil Defense inquires why I do not at-
tend all the meetings.

We managed to raise the boys to college age and acceptance, some-
how living through the worry and despair familiar to most parents. On
vacations we toured the country together, the parents enjoying the trip
and the boys planning what they were going to do when they got
home. Somehow, as is also typical, the boys developed interests com-
pletely foreign to their parents who can only hope they appear compre-
hending during table lectures on industrial management or electronics.
There 1s a sports car with shaved-down or built-up components, capable
of incredible and utterly unnecessary acceleration, and there are eight
television sets in various stages of go and no go, awaiting conversion to
radar and things as yet not invented.

I look forward to reading the news and views of my classmates, and
wish to offer congratulations to the rich Republicans, a suspicious glance

to the rich Democrats, and sympathy and understanding to the poor of

both parties.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 63

CHARLES SPECK BAUMGARTEN +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 6300 Waterman Ave., St. Louis 5, Mo.

ROBERT WILLIAM BEAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2234 Q St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Treasury Dept., Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln High School, Council Bluffs, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Margaret Cross, May 30, 1943. cHitpren: William Hillary, April 5,
1943; Jeffrey Warren, March 8, 1947; Mark Faulkner, Oct. 28, 1950.

HARVARD SON: William Hillary Bean, °65.

OCCUPATION: Financial adviser, U.S. Treasury.

OFFICES HELD: U.S. Treasury Representative, London, 1955-63; U.S. Treasury Rep-
resentative and Counselor for Economic Affairs, American Legation, Bern,
1952-53; Treasury Representative, 1948-52, Economic Counselor, 1950-52,
American Embassy, Stockholm.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Harvard Club of London.

PUBLICATIONS: “European Multilateral Clearing,” Journal of Political Economy,
1948, and other articles.

One year abroad after college, one year law school, one year Wash-
ington, three years Army (two overseas), two years W ashington, six
years abroad, two years Washington, eight years abroad, recently re-
patriated.

64 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ROBERT HOLMES BECK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1610 East River Terr., Minneapolis, Minn.

OFFIcE apprEss: University of Minneapolis College of Education, Minneapolis 14,
Minn.

PREPARED AT: Warren Harding High School, Bridgeport, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., curt laude, 1939; pu.p. (Yale Univ.),

MARRIED: Maeve Butler, Aug. 7, 1943. cHitpren: Roger Holmes, Jan. 24, 1945;
Peggy Vallandigham, Jan. 17, 1947; Carl Taggart, Sept. 25, 1950.

occupation: Chairman and professor, History and Philosophy of Education, Uni-
versity of Minnesota.

PUBLICATIONS: Curriculum in the Modern Elementary School (with Walter Cook
and Nolan Kearney), Prentice-Hall; The Three R’s Plus, University of Min-
nesota Press; Social History of Education, Prentice-Hall, 1964; articles for
professional journals; chapters to books others have edited.

As a graduate student at Yale, my Ph.D. was taken in the history and
philosophy of education. At Harvard my tutor in philosophy was
Charles L. Stevenson, now at the University of Michigan, I believe. At
Yale, John S. Brubacher became my adviser: as Stevenson, Brubacher
now is at Michigan.

After receiving my Ph.D. at Yale in 1942, I taught for a summer at
the University of Kansas City, Missouri, from which I left for an aca-
demic year at the University of Rochester, New York, where I met my
wife, the former Maeve Butler (sister of Pierce Butler, 3d, of the Class
of 1939). I left Rochester in the late spring of 1943 and joined the
Army where most of my service was with the 608th Field Artillery
Battalion. I was discharged in 1946.

After leaving the Army, I rejoined the staff of the University of
Kansas City, became chairman of the Department of Education, but left
the University of Kansas City for the University of Minnesota in 1947.
Except for summer sessions at the University of Texas, University of
Southern California, University of British Colombia and the University
of Colorado, I have been with the University of Minnesota continuously

since 1947.

During 1955-56, | was guest professor at the University of Amsterdam,
Holland, holding a Fulbright Research Grant. In 1958 [ was in the USSR
on a grant from the Hill Family Foundation and in 1962 was a fellow of
the University of Jerusalem, Israel.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 65

WILLIAM HENRY BEEHLER, JR.

re" SOLER ERE AN MONOCOTS

“g RPAR E RS te
a
¥
wen BES. aber sboassen nih

PME BO ch SB BIRT ON IER
SBR) See.

  

HOME Abpress: 35 Warrenton Rd., Baltimore 10, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wm. Beehler Inc., 205 W. Lombard St., Baltimore 1, Md.
PREPARED AT: Baltimore City College, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Cary Baxter, Jan. 31, 1942 (divorced 1957). cHiLpREN: William
Rhodes, Dec. 9, 1949; Bruce McPherson, Oct. 11, 1951.

occupaTioNn: General manager, Wm. Beehler Inc., manufacturers of umbrellas dis-
tributed on a national basis.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Maryland.

“ At graduation my application to Harvard Business School had been
accepted and I planned to go following a year or two of earning a living.
With this in mind I returned to Baltimore and joined The Baltimore Sun
in the advertising department. Since that summer the pleasures and pit-
falls of earning a living have only been interrupted once. That inter-
ruption was for five years of war service.

With The Sun before and after the war for a total of four years and
subsequently in various businesses connected directly or indirectly with
the graphic arts, I pursued the dollar for fifteen years until 1960. I de-
cided then to abandon the printing industry as the place to carve a career
and joined my family’s business in the manufacture of umbrellas. In
retrospect those many years were enlightening if not always lucrative,
at least not as much as the times necessitated. The change from employee
to employer and from salesman to plant manager has greatly altered my
viewpoint and only time will tell of the financial improvement. One
thing is certain: that should there be a Fiftieth Report forthcoming, my
place of business will be the same as now. I have learned the manu-
facturing business from an experienced teacher, my father, and it is my
intention when he relinquishes control] of the business to continue it and
expand it.

The war years were served in the European Theatre as an artillery
officer with the 29th Infantry Division. The Division trained for three
years on the East Coast and on the moors of England and was ready for
combat when the time came on D-Day. Through St. L6 and Brest! And
then through Holland and into Germany, we were on the Elbe River
when the Russians were permitted to continue westward to “link-up”
with the Allies, Certainly no other National Guard Division acquitted

66 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

itself better in Europe. During this period I commanded a light Field
Artillery battery. We felt this was the finest place of all to fight the war
for although we were never neglected by the Germans we were not
called on to exist as the Infantry did in front of us. Being National
Guard my own unit finished the war with many of the Baltimore men
first called out, and interestingly enough we have recently held our 18th
consecutive Battery Reunion. This year as always attendance is by at
least forty-five men who served together during the war.

Since the war most of my recreation and leisure time has been devoted
to raising and educating two fine sons, Circumstances are such that they
spend much of their free time with me and my pleasure has come from
watching them grow and mature. As the time for the two of them to
think of college draws closer my desire that they too go to Harvard
grows stronger. There are still enough formative years left to make
actual planning hazy but when the time does come it is my sincerest wish
that they and I are prepared to make this wish a reality.

My interest in Harvard has continued and is constantly reawakened
through my service on the Schools Committee of the Harvard Club of
Maryland. Annually for more years than I care to admit I have talked
to boys from my own high school often in the company of representa-
tives from the Admissions Office. It is a rewarding experience to con-
vince a deserving high school graduate in some way that he is capable

of being admitted to Harvard. It is a greater pleasure to have those boys
who go seek you out and thank you for the very small part you may have
had in guiding him there.

ROBERT STRUTHERS BEEKMAN

 

HOME appress: 55 E. 72d St., New York 2], N.Y. ’

OFFICE ADDRESS: 896 Madison Ave., New York 21, NY.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Masa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pechEE: a.p., cum laude, 1939; m.p. (Columbia
Univ.), 1943.

mantiep: Mary Marckwald, April 3, 1948. cittoxen: William B., July 8, 1949;
Isabelle S., May 7, 1951; Mary M., July 31, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Physician — internist.

OFFICES HELD: Associate attending physician, St. Luke's Hospital, New York City;
president, Greer, a children’s community.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 67

MEMBER, OF: Union Club, New York City; New York Academy of Medicine (fel-
low).

Attended the College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University,
for four years, graduating in 1943. I then had a nine months’ medical
internship at St. Luke’s Hospital and joined the Army in 1944. Returned
to St. Luke’s for further house staff training in 1946, after service in the
European theatre, leaving the Army as a major. Since then I have
practised medicine in New York City. We spend our summers in South-
port, Connecticut.

(CHARLES EDWARD BELLOWS, JR.

4
!
i

  

   

HOME ADDRESS: 2833 22d Ave., Oakland, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rathbone, King & Seeley, 350 Sansome St., San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Lyman Hall High School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Regina Barrett, May 14, 1941. cHmpren: Elizabeth Barrett, June 14,
1943; Donna Lura, Oct. 31, 1944; Charles E., Oct. 18, 1945; Warren, April 3,
1947; Robert, Oct. 23, 1948.

occuPATION: Manager, Life Insurance Department, Rathbone, King & Seeley.

OFFICES HELD: Offices in local organizations and those primarily concerned with the
children’s activities; vice-president, Men’s Organization, College of the Holy
Names; chairman, Ways & Means, O’Dowd High School; scoutmaster, Boy
Scout Troop and other Scout offices. :

Life has been real good to me. I am blessed with a marvelous wife who
has given us and the world a wonderful group of children. We have
spent considerable time and effort with them and for them, and they
have responded real well. Beth and Donna are our two eldest and no
one could have two better daughters, Both are in the College of the
Holy Names and are doing well scholastically and as good citizens.
Both are quite active in the Recreation Department of the City of Oak-
land and are being paid to spread their talents to others, Charles, the
eldest boy, is in the University of California at Berkeley and is doing well.
He was admitted with honors at entrance. Warren and Bob, the two
younger boys, are in high school and are doing well. All three boys are
active in the Boy Scouts—all three having attained the rank of eagle.
Scholastically they are doing well; thus all of them are well on their
way to contributing to socicty. My wife, Gina, has been and still is a

68 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

constant inspiration to them —and me. She is tremendous! We have
enjoyed the outdoors a lot, camping by rivers and in the high country —
as a family. Many memories will remain as we start going in many dif-
ferent directions.

I joined IBM in 1939; into the service in 1941; out as a major in 1945.
Since we fell in love with California we moved to the Bay Area — sacri-
ficing a career with IBM to go into the insurance business. It has pro-
vided a good livi ing (but No great wealth! ).

Most of my activities have been connected with the children’s ac-
tivities in school and their various extracurricular functions. My wife
has become quite a reading specialist and has “saved” many a youngster
from “reading oblivion.” Consequently, tutoring has become quite a time
consumer of any extra leisure time that is normally available.

It is hardly believable that twenty-five years have passed so quickly.
We're looking forward to another twenty-five to go even better!

JOHN RICHARDSON BEMIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: Monument St., Concord, Mass.

OFFICE appreEss: Acorn Structures, Inc., Box 127, Concord, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1936-1939, DEcREE: $.B., 1939.

maraiep: Charlotte Hutchins, Sept. 4, 1943. curoren: Marjorie, Aug. 21, 1944;

John G., May 10, 1946; Eleanor, May 10, 1948; Gordon H., March 20, 1951;
Alice, April 14, 1955,

OCCUPATION: Manufacturer of prefabricated houses and building parts; president,
Acorn Structures, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Concord General Building Committee, since 1957, chair-

man, 1960-63; member, Building Committee, Trinity Church, Concord, 1960-
63; trustee, The Fenn School, Concord.

MEMBER OF: Concord Country Club; The Schussverein; Building Research Insti-
tute, planning committee, 1961-63.

As indicated by the above photograph and as evidenced by the in-
numerable “reminder” postcards from the Report Committee, it has
been a tough assignment to pull off this masterpiece, But in the words
of a friend of mine who Tuns a successful welding shop — “We'll do
something, even if it’s wrong.”

~ After graduation I attended M.I.T. where I studied in both Architec-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 69

ture and Building Construction Departments for some two and a half
years interrupted by war activities. Mine consisted of research work on
missiles at M.1.T. Some time in 1946 or ’47 (can’t remember exactly) I
got back to the building business, first working with a committee of the
American Standards Association on dimensional coordination. Then I
embarked on my present endeavor, started initially with architect Carl
Koch. Since its inception my aim has been to build a business by pro-
viding better, more economical buildings (primarily residential) through
greater utilization of manufacturing processes. This has not been a
simple project, and like most it has turned out to be very different from
what it seemed at the start. It has been rewarding and we have made
some contributions to the “art” of building which we hope will become
less and less of an art and more of an industry.

The other side of the record —the family —is the best part of life.
We are fortunate to have three girls and two boys. We have set no
great records with our activities either as a group or individually but we
enjoy both kinds. We indulge in most of the recreational activities that
New England generously affords, These along with many of the kinds
of things that my business involves me in are my hobbies. We haven't
done much traveling since marriage but that time is coming. Most of the
real work of the family is done by my good wife and she deserves the
credit for the apparently good results, Our eldest is a sophomore at
Carleton College in Minnesota. Johnny is an enthusiastic senior at An-
dover in search of another “home” for next year. Harvard? — maybe.

I suppose a 25th Reunion “memoir” can not be complete without a sage
observation or two. Certainly this event comes at a time in life when it
seems there is real value in taking stock of one’s self and in comparing
notes with one’s contemporaries. What have we learned in our some
forty-eight years of “education?” Not a great deal here, I’m still trying
to figure out a formula for determining the right number of irons to
have in the fire to keep me busy but not so busy that I lose track of where
I’m going and why and when. I’m sure the easy problems in this world
are the ones to do with things. The tough ones that really should be get-
ting more and more attention are the people problems. How do we
make them more engaging to the attention of more people?

LOUIS KUHN BENJAMIN

EP FARRAR EF

    

 

 

a AMY RG HE: TOE OE

70 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

porn: Noy. 24, 1916, Cincinnati, Ohio. PARENTS: Julien Emil Benjamin, Alice
Kuhn.

PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: $.B., cum daude, 1939.

prep: Feb. 7, 1954. Paris, France.

Louis Kuhn Benjamin entered the Diplomatic Service and later served
as attache at the Embassy at New Delhi, India. He was survived by his
parents.

RICHARD STANWOOD BENNER

   

estat ot ten adh A in cn i i Sn A

 

HOME apprEss: 18] Eton Rd., Longmeadow, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Electric Game Co., [nc., 109M Lyman St., Holyoke, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: $.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Crocker Holmes, Sept. 30, 1939, cuiLpREN: Caroline Holmes,
Dec. 22, 1940; Joanne Rogers, Dec. 24, 1945; Elizabeth Crocker, Oct. 21,
1951.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, director, etc., Electric Game Company, Inc., manufacturers
of electric toys and games, also operating a packaging division which serves
some thirty accounts.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and director, Chemical Paper Manufacturing Corporation,
Holyoke, Mass., since 1952; advisory director, Valley Bank & Trust Company,
Springfield, Mass., since January, 1958.

MEMBER OF: Longmeadow ( Mass.) Country Club; Coleny Club, Springfield, Mass.;
First Church of Christ (Congregational), Longmeadow.

Before graduation from college, 1 was offered a job in a family-owned
business. [ accepted the offer and on June 25, 1939, I “married the boss’s
daughter.” I never made the move to live in Holyoke. From that time
to the present I have commuted, first from Springficld and then from
Longmeadow. The traveling has been no great chore, but as a result of it
my interest in community affairs has suffered since I did not develop a
close tie to either place.

Married life began in a three-room apartment, but after a year we
graduated to a two-family house. More room was necessary because of
the birth of a daughter on December 22, 1940, During this period I
worked my way through the various phases of paper manufacturing,
starting in the rag room and eventually becoming a fourth hand on a
Fourdrinier paper machine. After that J spent several months in the

 

&
»,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 71

laboratory learning to test paper for physical qualities. In 1941 I joined
the accounting department and finally became the treasurer of the
Chemical Paper Manufacturing Corporation in 1952 after the death of
my father-in-law.

In the spring of 1942, we became home owners in Longmeadow. In
1945 a second daughter was born, almost as a Christmas present, on
December 24. At that time | was a basket case with jaundice. Time went
by, and with the expectation of a third child in 1951, we decided to build

a house, my wife acting as architect. The third addition was a daughter
(par for the course) born October 21, 1951.

Along in the middle fifties, it became apparent that unless we had more
young talent and a definite plan for the company on a long range basis,

our only alternative was to sell or merge. After many talks with in-
terested buyers, we finally sold out in 1958 to Standard Packaging
Corporation, and of course I sold myself out of a job. I worked for the
new company for two years and by mutual agreement resigned January 1,
1961. In March, 1961, 1 became associated with Electric Game Company
as treasurer also in Holyoke, and since then I have devoted my time and
efforts:toward making the operation financially sound. I have found
this a challenging and fascinating experience, particularly since I have
had the satisfaction of playing a part in expanding the company with a
new packaging division which is growing rapidly. I have had doubts as
to whether a small company could survive in this economy but at this
writing [ am becoming convinced it can be done.

In the spring of 1964, we will move to a new house which we are now
in the process of building, The principal reasons for this are: Our two
eldest daughters have more or less “flown the coop” and we can do
without five bedrooms. We would also like a house with some newer
innovations which we don’t have now such as air-conditioning, etc.
Caroline (Carol), the eldest, is living in Boston. She graduated from Gar-
land Junior College and worked two years for the First National Bank
of Boston. This year she has gone back to Boston University to get her
college degree. Joanne, our second, entered Goucher College outside
Baltimore, Maryland, September, 1963, as a freshman. Betsy is at home
with us and now in junior high.

Although I have usually voted Republican, I am registered as an In-
dependent and believe I can truthfully say I would consider the merit of
the candidate before party commitment.

I believe that I have certain social convictions, although I think T tend
to “go along with the crowd” because 1 do not have the ume to devote
to special causes.

The Congregational Church in Longmeadow has received my support
since we moved here although I am an infrequent church-goer. 1 leave
the church-going to my family, our two eldest daughters having taught
Sunday school when they were at home.

P.S. My wife wonders, after reading and correcting this literary work,
how I ever graduated from Harvard???

72 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HALE POWERS BENTON, JR. +

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 25] Bret Harte Rd., San Rafael, Calif.

  
   

R MOXON BERESFORD

   

oo

HOME appress: 8304 Thoreau Drive, Bethesda, Md. .

OFFICE ADDRESS: vom Baur, Beresford & Coburn, 1700 K St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: $.B., cum laude, 1939; Lx.B., 1942.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Freeman Newell, May 10, 1940 (divorced 1954) ; Helen Ann
Lincoln, Aug. 13, 1955. crmoren: Richard Ellsworth, July 17, 1944; Gail
Freeman, Dec. 15, 1947; Thomas Newell, Oct. 7, 1950; Douglas Lincoln, June
1, 1956; Annette Diana, Feb. 26, 1958.

occuPaTION: Private law practice; partner, vom Baur, Beresford & Coburn.

OFFICES HELD: Ensign to lieutenant, 1942-56, lieutenant to lieutenant commander,

1950-52, commander, Reserve, USNR; Town Meeting representative, Welles-
ley, Mass., 1948-52; special assistant to deputy director (MDAC), F oreign
Operations Administration, 1953-55; assistant chief, American Law Division,
1957-58, senior specialist in American public law, 1958-59, Legislative Refer-
ence Service, Library of Congress; special counsel, Select Committee on
Astronautics & Space Exploration, 1958-59, special counsel, Committee on
Science & Astronautics, 1959-62, U.S. House of Representatives; executive
secretary, Federal Tax Institute of New England, 1949-50; general counsel,
National Space Club, since 1962; chairman, Committee on Liability, Inter-
national Astronautical Federation, since 1959; member, General Advisory
Group, American Society of International Law, 1962; member, Committee on
the Law of Outer Space, American Bar Association, since 1958; member,
Committee on Space Law & Sociology, American Rocket Society, 1958-63;
member, Committee on Law & Sociology, American Institute of Aeronautics
& Astronautics, since 1963; member, Committee on Space & Weather Law,
Federal Bar Association, 1959-61.

MEMBER OF: American Society of International Law; American and Federal Bar
Associations; American Institute of Aeronautics & Astronautics; National
Space Club; Lakewood Country Club; Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.;
Harvard Law School Association; past member of Boston Bar Association,
American Rocket Society, Harvard Club of Boston; member of bar in
Massachusetts and District of Columbia,

PUBLICATIONS: Principal works only: International Problems of Liability for
Space Activities, pub. date, 1964, “Civil Liability for Non-Therapeutic Opera-
tions,” 14 Rocky Mountain Law Review, 1942, with H. W. Smith; “Some Pro-
bative Aspects of the Early Germanic Coden,” 23 Boston University Law Re-
view 183, 1943, with Samuel Polsky; “Commonwealth Status and the Federal

eee Rin ened 1

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 73

District Court of Puerto Rico,” 19 Revista del Colegio de Abogados de Peurto
Rico 19, 1958; “Liability for Ground Damage Caused by Spacecraft,” 19
Fed. B.J. 242, 1959; “Surveillance Aircraft and Satellites: A Problem of In-
ternational Law,” 27 Journal of Air Law and Commerce 107, 1960; “New In-
surance for Outer Space,” The Spectator, April, 1961; “Preface to Naval
Strategy in Outer Space,” U.S. Naval Institute Proceedings, March, 1961;
“Government Indemnification of Space Contractors” (Report of the Committee
on the Law of Outer Space, American Bar Association, 1961).

In the twenty-five years since my graduation from Harvard College,
I have worked some sixteen years for the federal government, including
six years in the Navy. This experience has provided interesting and
unique vantage points in both the legislative and executive branches. For
example, after the Soviet Union launched its first sputnik, 1 became
special counsel to the House committee which sponsored the National
Aeronautics and Space Act. I have found that the satisfaction of govern-
ment service for the most part outweighs the frustrations, but for various
personal reasons I| returned to private law practice in July of 1962, and I
am now a partner in the firm of vom Baur, Beresford & Coburn here in
Washington.

A hard question is how I have changed since 1939. Only ten pounds
heavier, politically more liberal, socially less tolerant, slightly more re-
ligious. 1 know a good deal more, mostly about people. Otherwise, the
changes have not been great. By and large, I enjoy the same pleasures,
hold the same beliefs, and have almost the same amount of hair.

I remarried in Washington in 1955, and have five children (three boys
and two girls), the youngest in the first grade and the eldest in college.
Family life has always given me great satisfaction. Preoccupation with
family, by choice and by necessity, has somewhat changed my interests,
putting less emphasis on historical forces and movements, and bringing a
greater appreciation of patience, integrity, peace and communication.

I do not necessarily want my sons to go to Harvard. That will depend
on them — not just on their wishes and capabilities but on the qualities
they have or have not developed beforehand. Harvard can teach them
scholarship and intellectual integrity, but does it provide much sense of
relevance or communication with our society? It may come closer than
any of its rivals to Newman’s “idea of a university” but perhaps that
ideal is out of date. It dedicates its efforts to truth, but does it inspire its
sons (and daughters) with the faith, enthusiasm and hope which they
will need for social leadership or even understanding?

Over the years I have become convinced that intellectual knowledge
and understanding, even of the highest order, do not prevail in this world
unless joined effectively with faith, enthusiasm, and hope; that the cre-
ation of significant new alternatives is more than the exercise of freedom
of choice or mere hard work; and that the possibilities of achieving new

alternatives in human affairs are limited principally by prevalent mis-
conceptions (including one’s own) and by the problems of communica-
' tion.

In any case, I still find myself drawn to pioneering efforts and always
to the future. My movement in 1958 to the staff of the new histori¢
House Select Committee on Astronautics and Space Exploration rook
me directly into the forefront of technology and adventure, New fields
still beckon me. I hope that they always will,

74 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

FRANK DAVID BERGSTEIN

 
     

   

tt
rw

   
    

  
 

i a

HOME ADDRESS: 385 Oliver Rd., Wyoming (Cincinnati), Ohio, 45215.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Interstate Folding Box Co., P.O. Box 389, Middletown, Ohio 45042.

PREPARED AT: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938.

MARRIED: Mary Margaret McHaffie, March 28, 1947, CHILDREN: Martha, June 5,
1949: Connie, Nov. 12, 1950; David, Aug. 14, 1953; Tommy, March 7, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Interstate Folding Box Company.

MEMBER OF: Losantville Country Club, Cincinnati; Standard Club, Chicago;

Technical Asseciation of the Pulp & Paper Industry, New York City.

PUBLICATIONS: Over forty U.S. and foreign patents in the paperboard and pack-
aging field.

In the summer of 1938 I entered the family business, the Interstate
Folding Box Company, which was founded by my father in 1911. This
year (1963) was my twenty-fifth year with the company.

From 1941 to 1946, | was in the Infantry and spent more than three
years overseas with the 115th Infantry Regiment, 29th Division. We
assaulted Omaha Beach on D-Day, fought in Normandy, captured St.
Lo, and participated in nearly all the principal campaigns in France and
Germany. | am very fortunate to be alive and in good health.

After the war I met and married Mary Margaret McHaffie of Hunt-
ington, West Virginia. We live in Wyoming, Ohio (a suburb of Cin-
cinnati) and have four children, two girls and two boys.

My elder brother Bob and I have managed our company since 1946,
and we have always enjoyed a fine personal as well as business relation-
ship. The management group of the company has also been most pleas-
ant to work with over the years. During 1947-48 we built a paperboard
mill in Miamisburg, Ohio, to supply board for our carton plant in Mid-
dletown, Ohio. This was a considerable undertaking which has been
quite successful. Besides my management responsibilities I have been
involved in research and development work in the fields of packaging,
packaging machinery, printing, paperboard manufacturing, and the
coating of paper and paperboard, This work has led to several commer-
cial developments and a number of United States and foreign patents 1n
these fields.

The most important things in my life have been and are: (1) my happy
marriage and my children, (2) my work and (3) my war experiences.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 75

EDWARD ALEXANDER BERGSTROM

me a

 
 

HOME AppREss: 37 Old Brook Rd., West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ApprEss; Aetna Casualty & Surety Co., 151 Farmington Ave., Hartford,

onn,

PREPARED AT: Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1940.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Wasson, Sept. 3, 1943. cHiLpREN: Nancy Venable, June 17,
1946; Lucy Deming, April 9, 1948; Anne Fuller, Oct. 16, 1950; Peter Wasson,
July 14, 1952; Martha Hart, Oct. 23, 1954.

occupation: Casualty underwriter and policy form specialist.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, September-‘)ecember, 1963, chairman, since January,
1964, Town Conservation Commission, West Hartford; director and assistant
treasurer, Northeastern Bird-Banding Association (handling importation and
sale of scientific equipment from Japan); director and past president, Con-
necticut Conservationists; director, Connecticut Association of Conservation
Commissions; past president, Hartford Audubon Society; honorary vice-presi-
dent, Massachusetts Audubon Society; chairman, Committee for the Prepara-
tion of a Revised Bird-Banding Manual, North American Council of Bird-
Banding Associations.

MEMBER OF: American Ornithologists’ Union (elective member); about twenty
other groups interested in ornithology or conservation.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Bird-Banding magazine, since October, 1950; bibliography
of about 150 items on casualty insurance, American history and ornithology
(mostly short papers or reviews on ornithology).

    

ore a
Sony,
Hy

a *
SS vader __]

76 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Waconah Rd., Worcester, Mass.

OFFicE appress: South High School, Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: North High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. pEcREES: a.B. (Clark Univ.), 1939; a.m. Cibid.) , 1941.

MARRIED: Sylvia Flayer, Feb. 12, 1943. cuttpren: Robert Gary, March 26, 1945;
Barbara Lois, March 7, 1949; Linda Rose, July 8, 1952.

OCCUPATION; Assistant principal, South High School.

OFFICES HELD: President, Masters Club, 1949, Worcester High School Teachers,
1952-55.

MEMBER OF: N.E.A.; M.T.A.; W.T.A. (teachers organizations) ; American Chemi-
cal Society,

Received A.M. at Clark in 1941. Taught for a while in Worcester and
Amherst. Enlisted in the Army in December, 1941. Graduated from
OCS in October, 1942. Served in Air Force Service commands through-
out the Continent, 1942-46. Married in Oklahoma City in 1943. Son
born at Kelly Field in 1945. Separated as major in April, 1946. Went
back as a teacher of chemistry in September, 1946. Awarded various
fellowships for advanced study at Union College, Worcester Polytech.
At present, working toward doctorate at Boston University.

Am very interested in curriculum development, and before promotion
to present position was instrumental in curriculum revision in science
teaching. In present position as assistant principal, I do have oppor-
tunity to put into practice what is considered the best of thinking.

Am an active member of Temple Emmanuel, which is a member of
the liberal Jewish movement. Have been a teacher in religious school and
feel that it is valuable and rewarding. Have organized and administered
extracurricular classes for talented students, Feel that the talented stu-
dent is being short-changed. Have been active in the Scout movement.
Was local representative to regional Scout district for a number of years,
in addition to doing active work with various Troops.

My hobbies center around my family. Eldest child, a son, is a sopho-
more at New York University, majoring in economics, a far cry from

chemistry. Travels consist mainly of taking the family to various places

of cultural interest along the Adciantic seaboard. From 1946 to 1950 I

was very active in the Air Force Reserve; called up during the Korean

Crisis but failed the physical because of an injury. Am very interested in

the culture of the community and lend as much effort as possible to bring

good music and theatre here.

Lam by conviction a liberal interested in change, evolutionary change;
therefore, my political affiliation is with that group which at that time
can improve on the situation. Firmly believe that the future is dependent
on our schools.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 77

HAROLD RICHARD BERNSTEIN

2 RAMI OE IES

    

HOME ADDRESS: 125 Tappan St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 82 Chauncy St., Boston 11, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Mass.; Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Rosalind Spero, Dec. 25, 1941. cHiLpREN: Joan Laraine, Nov. 6, 1944;
Kenneth Steven, Feb. 20, 1948.

OccUPATION: President and owner, general manager and salesmanager, Wright Sales
& Manufacturing, Inc., manufacturing distributors of popular-price sportswear
and swimsuits.

OFFICES HELD: President, Wright Sales & Manufacturing, Inc., since 1947; trustee,
Temple Ohabei Shalom, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Newton Squash and Tennis Club; Chestnut Hill Country Club;
Masons, A.F. & A.M.

As I write this sketch, with our Fifteenth Anniversary Report open
before me, the impact of ten years makes me chuckle.

I am blessed with a charming, beautiful, and intellectually superior
wife. In our twenty-two years of marriage we had two children: a
daughter, now nineteen, who is at Colby Junior College, and a son, six-
teen, a junior in high school whose aim is to be a veterinary doctor.

I confess the task of earning a living interferes with my hobbies, but
although I work like a Trojan I still find time to play quite a bit of
tennis and squash, sail my boat, paint once in a while, dabble in photog-
raphy, tickle the keys of my piano, or more recently my organ, listen to
my hi-fi, and fish occasionally.

My company is engaged in manufacturing and distributing popular
priced children’s wear and bathing suits to major retailers. My business
is most demanding of my energies and time. Its inherent defect is that
it is successful as long as (and only if) I personally give it concentrated
effort.

If success is measured in dollar bills, I guess I “made” it. I rather
think that success, however, is a combination of many other achieve-
ments, quite a few of which I have not yet attained, the foremost of
which is having time — time to relax, time to think, time to do nothing.

I recognize more fully the significant and real values in life as 1 get
older. My fondest hope is to narrow the time difference between “to-
morrow” and “today,” the former being the illusory time when we

78 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

promise ourselves all the things we should be doing today. Live each
day as if it were our last is the way of narrowing this gap.

Politically, I am a “conservative-liberal” who closely identifies politi-
cal mores, social consciousness, and religion-in-action as one overall
subject. I continually find that the basic universal truths which serve as
the foundation of our daily living are delineated quite clearly in the Old
Testament.

Wr are still quite proud of and happy with our home which we de-
signed and built ourselves fifteen years ago, Our flowers are consistently
effective and beautiful but don’t quite have the show they did when our
horticultural fanaticism was supported by a considerable amount of
work. We have traveled through Mexico and the various islands of the
Caribbean. My war service was as a civilian contracting officer pur-
chasing ammunition for the Army. I feel the generation following ours
is more sophisticated, probably smarter, but to our eyes motivated
sometimes by different values.

In today’s competitive market for college admissions, I dare say |
would not have made Harvard, let alone being able to remain at
Harvard.

LEONARD BERNSTEIN

 

HOME ADpRESS: 205 W. 57th St., New York, N.Y. 10019,

OFFICE appress: New York Philharmonic, Philharmonic Hall, New York, N.Y.
10019.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939; p.F.a. (Northwestern
Univ.), 1957 (hon); LH. (Hebrew Union Coll.), 1958; Lup. (Brandeis
Univ.), 1959; utp. (Temple Univ.), 1959; Lu.p. (Dartmouth Coll), 1960.

MARRIED: Felicia M. Cohn, Sept. 9, 1951. cuttonen: Jamie Ann Maria, Sept. 8,
1952; Alexander Serge, July 7, 1955; Nina Maria, Feb. 28, 1962.

occuraTion: Music director, New York Philharmonic Symphony.
PUBLICATIONS: The Joy of Music; Leonard Bernstein's Young People’s Concerts.

The notion of writing even the bricfest autobiography fills me with
dismay. I have read so many accounts of my life thus far that I can
hardly bear to think about it any more. { therefore apologetically sub-
mit the attached “official” biography, which | earnestly hope will meet
your needs.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 79

“Leonard Bernstein became music director of the New York Phil-
harmonic at the age of forty. This was the first time a native American
has held a position of such magnitude in the music field. His three-year
appointment as music director, beginning with the 1958-59 season, was
extended for seven more years in 1961.

“Since 1957-58 he has been director of the Young People’s Concerts
of the New York Philharmonic. All of these concerts that he has con-
ducted have been televised nationally over the CBS Network, re-
peatedly receiving enthusiastic receptions from audiences, educators and
the press.

“leonard Bernstein and the Philharmonic can also be seen on another
television series — ‘Leonard Bernstein and the New York Philharmonic’
— which is also telecast throughout the nation over the CBS Network.
Hailed for its originality in presenting serious music to adult audiences,
the series of four programs, written by Mr. Bernstein, has been presented
every season since 1958-59.

“He began his association with the New York Philharmonic in 1943
as assistant conductor; on November 14th of that year he made his re-
markable, now historic, debut as conductor of the orchestra, substitut-
ing for the indisposed Bruno Walter in a brilliant fashion that elicited
rare praise from the musical press. At frequent intervals following that
time he appeared on the Philharmonic podium as guest conductor. He
was one of the two principal conductors of the Philharmonic in 1957-
58, before he became music director in 1958-59. .

“He graduated in 1939 from Harvard University, where he studied
with A. Tillman Merritt, Walter Piston and Edward Burlingame Hill.
The next two years were spent at the Curtis Institute in Philadelphia,
where he worked under Fritz Reiner in conducting and Randall Thomp-
son in orchestration. He continued his piano studies, begun in Boston
with Helen Coates and Heinrich Gebhard, with Isabelle Vengerova.

“Accepted as a student in conducting by Serge Koussevitzky, he spent
the summers of 1940 and 1941 at Tanglewood, where he caught the eye
of Artur Rodzinski, then musical director of the New York Philhar-
monic, who engaged Bernstein as assistant conductor of the orchestra
for the season 1943-44. Following his sensational Philharmonic debut,
when he was only twenty-five, Bernstein began his unswerving march
to the pinnacle of musical fame.

“In 1945, he began his three-year directorship of the New York City
Symphony, offering a series of standard works and challenging novelties
that are still remembered fondly by New Yorkers,

“The first of Bernstein’s compositions to win wide fame was his
‘Jeremiah’ Symphony, which he conducted in Pittsburgh, Boston and
New York, and which won the award of the Music Critics Circle of
New York as the ‘most outstanding orchestral work by an American
composer introduced during the 1943-44 season.” In the same year came
the first performance by the Ballet Theatre of his ‘Fancy Free,’ a ballet
which attained an enormous popularity. In October, 1946, the Ballet
Theatre introduced his ballet ‘Facsimile, which, like ‘Fanev Free,’ was
choreographed by Jerome Robbins. .

“In December, 1944, he made his first foray into the rigors of the
Broadway Theatre with ‘On the Town’ which, in its youthful gaicty and

82 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Christopher Award and the Secondary Education Board Award, pre-
sented by the Association of Independent Schools. The Joy of Music
appeared on the American Library Association’s list of ‘Notable Books
of 1959.” It has also been published in England, Israel, Germany, Sweden
and Mexico. In the fall of 1962, Simon and Schuster published his second
book, Leonard Bernstein’s Young People’s Concerts. This contains
many of the scripts used at these concerts and also recorded music ex-
amples to illustrate the subjects,

“Bernstein is married to the Chilean-born actress, Felicia Montealegre;
they have three children, a son and two daughters, and make their home
in New York City.”

PEYTON RANDOLPH BIDDLE
an a EC RT ETON

   

HOME aporess: Cricket Hill Farm, R.D. 2, Phoenixville, Pa.

OFFICE appRESS: The Philadelphia National Bank, Philadelphia 1, Pa.

PREPARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEGREE: a.B., 1939(40).

MARRIED: Frances Randolph Packard, June 22, 1940, cHtLpREN: Peyton Randolph,
Jr., Jan. 10, 1944; Packard, Oct. 24, 1946; William Beverley, Nov. 22, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, The Philadelphia National Bank, in charge of bank’s
own investment portfolio.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant cashier, 1952-57, assistant vice-president, 1957-62, vice-
president, since 1962, The Philadelphia National Bank; director, Citizens’
Council on City Planning, Philadelphia, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Bond Club of Philadelphia; Financial Analysts of Philadelphia;
Citizens’ Council on City Planning; Philadelphia Club; Merion Cricket Club;
Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Bank Officers Club of Philadelphia.

Two years out of college found me in the U.S. Marine Corps, by
which time I had married, built a house and held two civilian jobs.
After four years of service in this country, the Pacific and Far Fast,
things slowed down in one way and speeded up in another, No ad-
ditional marriages, only one job and all our dwellings have been second-
hand, Yet, in the early years, despite all the big events that occurred in
fairly rapid succession, there was always enough time to do more. To-
day, there never seems to be time to do anything; perhaps this is the
tragedy of life.

My religious, social and political convictions have not changed much.

I am conservative in my approach to all three; a moderately good Epis-

. 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 83

copalian, socially tolerant, but in favor of slow changes rather than the
sort of “progress” we have been witnessing in recent years, and when it
comes to politics I am definitely anti new-deal, anti new-frontier, etc.
Traveling I enjoy, although only one trip to Europe (1960) has been
possible since World War If compared with five such trips prior to the
war. Several trips to the Caribbean have been most rewarding; Guade-
loupe is especially recommended for classmates who like places which are
“different.”

Our most recent acquisition is an eighteenth-century farm in Chester
County, to which I could happily retire any time, devoting more time to
reading, gardening and general farming, as well as such satisfying sports
as trout fishing, hunting and traveling. When not on the farm, we are
busy at our camp in the north part of the Adirondacks. Our three boys,
aged twenty, seventeen and sixteen, are well on their way to maturity;
the eldest, having graduated from Groton in 1962, is at Pennsylvania

State University; the second is at the Phelps School and the youngest at
Groton.

     

~ ROBINSON LeROY BIDWELL, 1

   

HOME appress: 25 Casco Terr., Falmouth Foreside, Maine.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 31 Bramhall St., Portland, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Lexington High School, Lexington, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; m.p., 1943.

MARRIED: Ann King, March 6, 1943. cHiLpreN: Alison Karen, Dec. 26, 1950; Rob-
inson LeRoy, 3d, Nov. 24, 1956.

occupation: Physician; practising neurosurgery.

OFFICES HELD: Associate neurosurgeon, Maine Medical Center; attending staff,
Mercy Hospital and City Hospital, Portland; consultant to hospitals in
Maine and New Hampshire; member, Town Council, Town of Falmouth,
Maine; ex-president, Cumberland County Medical Association; innumerable
committees of medical societies, hospital staff and Town.

MEMBER: Maine Medical Association; American Medical Association; New Eng-

land Neurosurgical Association; Harvey Cushing Society; American Board
of Neurological Surgery.

Perhaps the outstanding attributes of the all too many passing vears
have been medial expansion (midriff) and apical retraction (hairline).
After obtaining an M.D., a short internship at the Massachusetts General
Hospital, three years in the MCAUS— including several months in

84 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Hawaii (wonderful), and a year in Japan (not so hot) — and further
residencies in neurosurgery at Massachusetts General and Lahey Clinic,
Entered private practice in Portland in 1950, in partnership with Dr,
George L. Maltby, and just recently acquired another partner in the
person of Dr. Carl A. Brinkman. I will not attempt to preach the ad-
vantages of life in Maine — most of you would not believe me— and
those who did might initiate a mass migration in this direction. Suffice
it to say that Casco Bay is a hundred yards from our door, fresh water
lakes a few miles away, mountains well-equipped with ski lifts an hour
away, etc, etc. Will be glad to give a practical demonstration of said
advantages to any seriously interested. As with any self-respecting
Portland suburbanite, our cars wear ski racks all winter, and a trailer-
hitch for the boat all summer. Practising medicine in a partnership gives
more time for enjoy ment, a built-in helping hand at busy times, and
quick consultation in the (many) times of professional uncertainty.

My family consists of wife Ann who has shown far better resistance
than I to the passing years, daughter Karen who, to my delight, looks
exactly like Ann, and son Robin who does not look like me (he is slender
and energetic), but who is said by my friends to resemble me in other
ways (he has a large appetite and is stubborn). Both children seem to
grow far more rapidly than I ke — and can ask many questions I can’t
answer,

Our family hobbies include boating and skiing — and for limited sec-
tions of the family mild gardening, intermittent photography, raising
tropical plants— and anything else that comes down the pike that looks
interesting. Politically, 1 could be called a mild Republican, religiously,
1 am mild; socially, Pm sure the world is going to the dogs, but since |
won't be here to see it, it doesn’t worry me. Enough until June.

CHARLES LOWELL BIGELOW

 

BorN: April 8, 1916, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Frederick Southgate Bigelow,
Mary Lowell.

PREPARED at: Deane School, Santa Barbara, Calif.

YEARS (IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, decnir: vB. 1939,

maxkiep: Martha Gaston, June 1, 1949. cookin: William Gaston, July 16, 195];
John Lowell, July 13, 1955.

piep: Nov. 1, 1963, Tiburon, Calif

wivow: Mrs. Charles L. Bigelow, 120 Stewart Drive, Tiburon, Calif.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 85

In October, 1963, Bigelow had sent in the following story for our Re-
ort. The Editors are printing it instead of a formal obituary.

“PREWAR: After few months as a children’s writer in Washington,
got into marketing research (Ross Federal Research Corporation).

“WARTIME: Was 4-F because of pre-college skull fracture. Worked
for Office of Defense Transportation as an examiner in Philadelphia and
Los Angeles.

“POSTWAR: When gas rationing let up on the coast, joined Los
Angeles Times as assistant to research director. After a year became sen-
ior research associate in Los Angeles office of Facts Consolidated (now
a division of C-E-I-R). Left in 1954 to join McCann-Erickson advertis-
ing agency as research director in Los Angeles, setting up research de-
partment. Transferred to San Francisco in 1957 to open research depart-
ment here. In 1960, agency’s research facilities were separated out into
MARPLAN, division of Communications Afhliates, Inc., owned by
Interpublic Incorporated, management company which owns McCann-
Erickson and other firms in communications. Became San Francisco
manager and subsequently a vice-president. Present responsibilities in-
clude servicing agency clients in San Francisco, Portland, Seattle, Van-
couver and Honolulu.

“PERSONAL: Married Martha Gaston (former Los Angeles radio
executive, former president, Los Angeles Advertising Women, etc.) on
June 1, 1949. Have two sons, William Gaston and John Lowell.

“PROFESSIONAL: Taught for two years in extension division, Uni-
versity of Southern California; now on faculty, Golden Gate College, San

Francisco. Author of numerous articles in professional and trade publi-
cations.”

He was survived by his wife and children.

ROBERT HAMILTON BINKERD

    

HOME aAppress: 370 Country Way, Needham 92, Mass.

OFFICE apDRESS: 1775 Mount Read Blvd.. Rochester 3, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1935-1939,

MARRIED: Lillian Edwards, June 30, 1946. critokeN: Carol L., May 22, 1953;
Robert Hamilten 2d, July 12. 1955; Karin L.. Dec. 16, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, marketing, Consolidated Vacuum Corporation, manu
facturer of high vacuum components and systems,

86 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

OFFICES HELD: General sales manager, NRC Equipment Corp., 1959-63; purchas-
ing agent, sales promotion manager, technical sales specialist, sales engineer,
district sales manager, field sales manager, 1942-55, marketing manager, spring
& forge division, 1953-59, Alco Products, Inc.

WARREN NEWTON BIXBY, JR.

*

    

HOME abpress: 71 Washington St., Topsfield, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Bixby & Co., Ipswich Road, Topsfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cur laude, 1939; M.B.A., 1941.

MaRRIED: Anne Blackmar, 1946. cHILOREN: William N., Aug. 13, 1947; David
Trowbridge, Nov. 26, 1948; Kenneth Bernard, March 30, 1951; Suzanne, Feb.
27, 1954.

occupation: Real estate; Bixby & Company, “The Real Estate People,” offices
in Topsfield and Lynnfield Centre covering Boston’s North Shore.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Tepsfeld Athletic Association.

MEMBER OF: Club 92, Topsfield (tennisial and social).

One of the vanishing American type absorbed in the promotional and
developmental efforts of a sole proprietorship. Out in the country a little
— large, fast-growing family — athletic and social interests. Too early in
life to start drawing conclusions — best efforts lie ahead, I hope.

CARL ARTHUR BLACK

 

HOME appness: 95 Pleaxant St., Ayer, Mans,
orvice appiess: 34 Main St, Ayer, Masa.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 87

PREPARED AT: Ayer High School, Ayer, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecreEs: a.B., cum laude, 1939; LLB. cum laude
(Northeastern Univ.}, 1947.

MARRIED: Lois Baylin, June 20, 1948. cHiLpREN: Julia Kay, Sept. 20, 1951; Laura
Meredith, May 1, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, 1962-63, library trustee member, last ten years, Ayer
School Committee.

MEMBER OF: Rotary; USO.

No change since last Report — still practising law in Ayer, Massachu-

setts, and spending most of my time attending meetings which I can’t
seem to get rid of.

PAUL | GILLINGHAM BLACK

 

HOME AppREss: 1 Neal Gate St., Greenbush, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Shawmut Bank, 40 Water St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Salamanca High School, Salamanca, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; M.B.A., 1941.

MARRIED: Nancy C. Bailey, Nov. 23, 1942. CHILDREN: Deborah Cooper, Dec. 16,
1948; Paul Gillingham, Jr., Sept. 5, 1955.

OccuPATION: Commercial banking; vice- president, divisional vice-president in
charge of banking division.

MEMBER OF: Robert Morris Associates; Harvard Business School Association of

Boston; Old Colony Harvard Club.

LANE BLACKWELL

88 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HOME ADpRESS: 8 Trevor Pl, London, 8.W. 7, England.

orrice appress: % NBC International, 36 Berkeley Sq., London, W.1., England,
PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED.

occuPaTION: European sales representative for NBC International.

Since 1958: European sales representative for NBC International, selling
US. (ie. NBC) TV programs to British and Continental TV services.
Based in London, and living there (when not traveling, which is a lot of
the ume). Am a member (rather renegade) of London Harvard Club.

1955-58: British and European representative, Fremantle International,
a New York TV program distributor.

1951-55: Three years in Germany, then two in New York, setting up
radio production department for Free Europe Committee. In 1953 mar-
ried a young lady who at once asserted herself by getting a Radcliffe A.M.

1939-51: From college, straight to CBS in New York for three years;
then four years USNR in Europe and Japan and Washington, back for
another three years to CBS, New York, in various radio writing, an-
nouncing and production jobs; finally a year or so of free-lance produc-
tion work and simultaneously working at Voice of America in news-
reading and production.

Interests: Languages, skiing, our “new” (1828) house.

JOHN BATES BLAIR

   

HOME appress: Village at Cane Bay, Christiansted, St. Croix, Virgin Islands.
PREPARED AT: Portsmouth Priory School, Portsmouth, R.L

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. prcneEs: a.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.B. (Washington
Univ., St. Louis), 1942.

MarRieD; Marie Bryan, 1942 (divorced) ; Betty Watkins, 1954. cHiLpReN: Anne,
Dec. 21, 1945; Kelly, Dec. 1, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Owner-manager, small cottage colony; trustee, family trust; lawyer.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 89

GEORGE BATY BLAKE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 61 Heath St., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Magnion, Inc., 195 Albany St., Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Rosemary Shaw, June 26, 1939. cHiLpren: George Baty, Jr., May 7,
1940; Rosemary, Oct. 6, 1941; Diana, March 11], 1946; Francis Stanton, July
30, 1949; Cynthia, Aug. 20, 1951.

HARVARD SON: George Baty Blake, Jr.,

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, Magnion, Te vanufacturers of scientific magnet systems.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Magnion, Inc.; president, board of trustees, Brooks School;
board member, Boys’ Club of Boston, Roxbury Neighborhood House.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club; Somerset Club; Tennis and Racquet Club.

In retrospect most of my last twenty-five years have been spent trying
to find answers to three fundamental and engrossing questions. These
questions, in descending order of personal responsibility, are:

“What is the proper role of parents in bringing up children in today’s
world?” “How can new enterprises in advanced technological fields
prosper under current economic and competitive conditions? > “Where
do the responsibilities of our educational system begin and end?”

Although time has passed quickly and happily, clear answers to these
questions continue to be elusive.

JOHN CLAFLIN BLAKE

90 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HOME abpress: 46 Lilly Lane, Dedham, Mass.

oFFicE apprEss: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley St., Bos-
ton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: North Quincy High School, North Quincy, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, precREES: a.B., cum laude, 1939; M.B.A., 1941,

MARRIED: Priscilla Mathieson, Oct. 5, 1947. cHipren: Susan Jean, July 22, 1950;
Cynthia, Oct. 19, 1955,

OCCUPATION: Assistant treasurer, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Dedham Community House, since 1960, Colonial Board

Company, since 1962; member, Finance Committee, Allin Congregational
Church, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Boston Society of Security Analysts, since 1948.

PUBLICATIONS: “Consumer Credit,” May, 1957, “Looking at Business,” November,
1958, The Analysts Journal.

Needless to ask, where did the twenty-five years go? After working a
few months at Filene’s, 1 went back to Harvard Business School. From
1941 to 1945, I had several jobs, including working for Swift & Company
and Gillette Safety Razor. Since 1945 I’ve been in the investment depart-
ment at John Hancock. Shortly thereafter | met and married (1947) a
lovely girl, Priscilla Mathieson of Reading.
Vacations for the past five years have been spent at Martha’s Vine-
yard Island, sailing and beachcombing. The only time I seem to get
back to Harvard is during football season, but it always looks good to
me, and I wish I could linger there longer on those Saturday afternoons.

ALBERT NICKELS BLANCHARD

 

HOME appress: 24 Westbury Rd., Garden City, N.Y.

OFFICE abpRESs: Turner & Blanchard. Inc., 24 State St., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. prckEe: 5.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARHIED: Shirley Eunice Moxness, May 12. 1943. curoren: William Albert,

ug. 20, 1946; Betty Clarice, June 10, 1949; David Moxness, Dec. 19, 1950;
Mary Maude, Sept. 17, 1952,

occuration: Vice-president, Turner & Blanchard, Inc. contracting stevedores and
terminal operator,

wemorn ov; Harvard Club of New York: Cherry Valley Country Club, Garden
City; Navy League of US., Kedron Lodge No. 803, F. & AML: Men's Asso-

ciation, Garden City High School; Naval Keserve T, T, and MT Division 3-1,
For Schuyler, New York,

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT Ol

Twenty-five years: five years in the Navy and twenty years in the
stevedoring business in the Port of New York. Suburban life in Garden
City, Long Island — with four children, the eldest, seventeen, and the
youngest, eleven. Hobbies: family activities with skiing in the winter,

sailing and cruising in the summer high on the list. Golfing when time
permits.

DOUGLAS SAMUEL BLAUFARB

.

  
  

OEP EPR ETE

“ee Renmei NaH HOMIES ICES

      

HOME appréss: 6640 32d St., N.W., Washington 15, D.C.

OFFICE ADpDREss: Dept. of State, Washington 25, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; s.m. (Columbia Univy.), 1941.

MARRIED: Celia Marjorie Warrilow, Nov. 15, 1944. cHILprEN: Ingrid, June 24,
1945; Nora, July 25, 1947; David, Aug. 14, 1951; William, Sept. 30, 1953.

occuPATION: Foreign service officer.

I find I have very little to add to my autobiography since the sketch
I wrote for the Twentieth Anniversary book. I am still in foreign serv-
ice and finding satisfaction in my job which outweighs the frustrations.
normal to work in any large organization. Since leaving Singapore in
1961, after two and a half years there, 1 have been assigned to ad-
ministrative duties. This' has been salutary. Nevertheless, I hope to go
overseas again in a year or so and get back into the substance of the
work, This tour in Washington has also been good for my children
whose memories of America were getting a little dim after five years in
Saigon and Singapore with only one short home leave.

Socializing with friends and family is now my favorite pleasure and
relaxation. I still read to learn, especially in my field of interest, which is
contemporary international politics, and occasionally I simply read for
fun. I have dabbled in photography and stamps but find after all I
really prefer spending my leisure with friends and other humans, among
whom | include my own children whose remaining time under my roof
is getting short, (Two of the four are already away at school and
college.)

Now, twenty-five years out of college, and with a lot of my youthful
certainties having become obsolete, I think I see that wisdom is a matter
of simplification, cutting back ta reliance on the few basic human veri-
tics, The remaining problem — which T suppose is not ever more than

92 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

half-solved at best — being how to embody them in the daily round and
meet your obligations to what you believe and the people who depend
on you. In politics though, I am still quite certain that the great truths
of the 1890's were not handed down on stone tablets to serve us for all
time. That's what I thought in 1939 and do still think. The “conserva-
tive” revivalists are only faintly amusing with their notions of how to
proceed in mid-twentieth century. A grim joke if they were to get the
chance only to learn, at our expense, that their ° ‘principles” were fan-
tasies and “the world ic was the old world yet,” stubbornly refusing to
stop.

So ends the wit and wisdom of this Thirty-niner.

SAMUEL HENRY BLOOM

 

[Editor's Note: See information at end of Individual Records section. ]

DONALD BROOKS BLOOMFIELD

 

BORN: June 5, 1916, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Maximilian D. Bloomfield, May
Hausmann.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Philadelphia, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. Decrees: a.B., curn laude, 1939; LL.B., 1942.
piep: Feb. 21, 1956, San Francisco, Calif.

Donald Brooks Bloomfield was formerly assistant law librarian at the
New York State Library at Albany. In 1953 he reported his address to
be the San Francisco Law Library. He was survived by his brother.

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 93

MORRIS BURGHEIM BLUMBERG

    

HOME ADpREsS: 4005 Hulman St., Terre Haute, Ind.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 421 Wabash Ave., Terre Haute, Ind.

PREPARED AT: Wiley High School, Terre Haute, Ind.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1940. DEGREE: S.B., magna cum laude, 1939(40).

MARRIED: Dorothy Mautner, June 16, 1940. cHILDREN: Benjamin Mautner, April
30, 1942; Kathryn, July 28, 1945; Ellen, March 24, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Benjamin Mautner Blumberg, 62.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Seaboard Finance Company.

After graduation and marriage —same day — we have lived mostly
in Terre Haute, Indiana, where I have been employed in the finance
business, first with Security and after its merger with Seaboard as vice-
president of Seaboard Finance Company. We live on the edge of the
city on a farm, so enjoy the outdoor life as well as hobbies of bridge,
music and travel. Always away as much as possible during hay fever:
season, we have visited Canada, Mexico and Europe four times including

a sashay to Israel last year. We hope to make the Orient and South
America someday.

 

HOME AppREss: 229 N. Mountain Ave., Montclair, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Kirkeby-Natus Corp., 40 Wall St., New York, N.Y.

“2 inating cella AARC ner et ttt NIRA aaaNaaaiiatasitl, Sinha innit iiltesaaspsaiiinieniieamaanmaaiabcnmnmnati cumini

94 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; LL.B., magna
cum laude, 1942.

acanrieD: Janet Helen Mitchell, Nov, 17, 1945. cur~pren: William Allen Mitchell,
Nov. 28, 1946; Peter Mitchell, Jan. 6, 1949; Elizabeth Booth, Feb. 4, 1952;
Bruce Mitchell. March 1], 1955.

occupation: President and chief executive officer, Kirkeby-Natus Corporation
(Finance).

oFFices HELD: Director. Kirkeby-Natus Corporation, Tidewater Natural Gas Com-
panv. Verde Exploration, Ltd., Mitchell-Rand Manufacturing Corporation;
president, 1955-1937, trustee, 1958-63, Adult School of Montclair; trustee,
Cerebral Palsy Rehabilitation Institute, Orange, N.J., 1960-63, Montclair
Guidance Center, 1955-63, Edward A. Filene Good Will Fund, 1948-63; mem-
ber, Essex County, NJ., Democratic Committee, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Phi Beta Kappa; Harvard Law Review
Association; Harvard Clubs of New York and New Jersey; Bankers’ Club,
New York City.

My life since college days can be divided into four quite separate
periods, each of which has proved interesting, demanding and reward-
ing. I regard mvself as a very lucky man because life has provided me
with recurring opportunities to work very hard at responsibilities which
I have enjoyed.

1. I first spent three years at the Harvard Law School. For me this
was a golden period in which my intellectual interests were at their
- brightest. The Law School launched me into professional life at so high
a peak of enthusiasm and so taut a state of mental discipline that almost
ail problems have seemed relatively easy since.

2. Three years in the U.S. Army Air Corps followed, mostly in the
European Theatre of Operations as a staff officer with two headquarters
in the Ninth Air Force. This was a great opportunity to Jearn about
people and about large-scale administration. In retrospect, a major
educational experience which provided a human and practical counter-
balance to the intellectual life of the Law School.

3. 1 then spent sixteen years at the practice of law in New York City.
As time moved on my practice became a curious, almost unique, mixture
of diverse interests. On one hand, I was adviser on corporate and financial
matters; on the other, I was counsel for trade unions, nonprofit groups,
and real estate investors interested in slum clearance, low-cost housing,
and urban redevelopment. This was absorbing, lively, and not uninter-
esting from the financial point of view. At this time, I assumed that the
future pattern of my professional life was settled.

4. However, the sudden death of the president of one of my most
important clients resulted in my election on a few days notice as presi-
dent of Kirkeby-Natus Corporation. This was a corporation with
$34,000,000 net worth, representing the proceeds of the sale of the hotel
and heating businesses of two predecessor companies, which was develop-
ing a major financing business with certain novel financing concepts. I
was presented with what seemed to be a unique opportunity to par-
ticipate in the creation of a major American enterprise, This was a

challenge sufficiendy exciting to shake me loose from my law practice.
Fightcen months later with some encouraging progress (an increase in
our portfoho of short-term secured loans from $31,000,000 to $60,000,000
and a listing on the New York Stock Exchange) but with much more

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT OS

still to do, I am as absorbed, as intrigued, and as challenged as when I
started.

I have thoroughly enjoyed my business and professional life. Although
this has been demanding, it has not kept me from interesting activities
in our town, Montclair, nor kept me from fun and play with my family.
Our summer home in Vermont has occupied an increasingly important
place in our lives. The serenity, the beauty, the magic of the woods have

overwhelmed us. A recent poem says it much better that I can: “The
woodlands lure the feet to green adventure.”

CHARLES LOUIS BO

Pm ne oe arta

CHERT, JR.

        
  

HOME ADDRESS: 5031 Colfax Ave., S., Minneapolis, Minn. 55419.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Prudential Insurance Co. of America, Box 1143, Minneapolis,
Minn. 55440.

PREPARED AT; Germantown High School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Kathryn Wagner Schwefler, June 7, 1941. CHILDREN: Michael, Aug. 1,
1944; Linda, May 13, 1949; Peter, Aug. 4, 1953; Kathy, Dec. 26, 1956; Bar-
bara, June 21, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Insurance; director of public relations, advertising and sales promo-
tion, North Central Home Office, Prudential Insurance Company of America.

MEMBER OF: Public Relations Society of America; Minneapolis Advertising Club;
Chamber of Commerce; Citizens League; Life Insurance Advertisers Asso-
ciation; Pastime and Nicollet Tennis Club.

96 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

GEORGE FREDERICK BOGARDUS +

 
 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: Box 32, APO 143, San Francisco, Calif.

OLIVER PAYNE BOLTON

   

HOME appress: 8021 S. Center Si., Mentor, Ohio.

orFice appress: U.S. House of Representatives, 1740 New House Office Bidg.,
Washington 25, D.C.

PREPASRED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, pecrEes: a.B., 1939; tL.s. (Western Reserve Univ.),
1947

marripp: Adelaide Brownlee, Oct. 4, 1940. cHtLoren: Charles Payne, June 24,
1942; Barbara, Sept. 28, 1944; William Bingham, Nov. 20, 1948.

HARVARD SON: Charles Payne Bolton, '64.

OCCUPATION: Representative, U.S. Congress.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, 1947-48, chairman, 1948-51, Ohio League of Young
Republicans; vice-president, Midwest YR Conference, 1947-48; YR National
Committieeman for Ohio, 1919-50; chairman, Republican Executive Com-
mittee, Lake County, Ohio, 1960-61; member, Ohio Republican Central Ex-
ecutive Committee, 1956-62; Representative to Congress of the U.S., 11th
District, Ohio, 1953-57, 1963 to date; director, Department of Commerce,
State of Ohio, 1957; member, Offices of Thompson, Hine & Flory, Cleveland,
Ohio, 1947-51; member, board of directors, Standard Tool Company, 1947-
48, Cleveland Trust Company, 1956-62, White Motor Company, 1958-62, Taft
Properties, Inc., since 1948, secretary treasurer, 1946-48, vice-president, since
1947, Payne Bingham Company; president and director, Tuscarawas Publish-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 97

ers, Lake Publishing Company and ABC News, Inc., 1952-63; member, board
of trustees, Milton (Mass.) Academy, 1949-51; trustee, Lake Erie College,
Painesville, since 1953; member, Northeast Ohio Council, Boy Scouts of
America, since 1957; member executive committee, Regional Council, Boy
Scouts of America, since 1961; vestryman, St. Hubert’s Episcopal Church,
Kirtland, Ohio, since 1950; member of board, since 1959, president of board,
1959-60, Mentor Recreation Association; member, executive committee, Lake
County Heart Society, since 1961, American Cancer Society, Cuyahoga Unit,
1961-63; member of board, Lake County YMCA, since 1955; co-chairman,
Lake County West End Building Fund drive, 1962.

MEMBER OF: Lake County and Ohio Bar Associations; American Legion; Masonic
Orders; BPOE; Kirtland Country Club; City Club; Tavern and Union Clubs
of Cleveland; Burning Tree of Maryland; Press Club of Ohio; Lake County
Farm Bureau; Winous Point Shooting Club; Harvard Club of Cleveland.

Life for our family these last twenty-five years has been full — some-
what varied, somewhat hectic, but seldom dull.

Returning home from Cambridge in 1939, I entered Western Reserve
Law School and, at the same time, the ro7th Cavalry Ohio National
Guard. One year of law school was all I could get in before being
called into service in early 1941, though I was able to find time to go
a-courting and got married in the fall of r9q0.

Five years in the Army — much of it in supply work and Intelligence
— took us from Tennessee and Louisiana to school in Kansas and then to
California, where our elder son was born and, finally, to Hawaii, the
Pacific and, eventually, to Iwo.

On returning home, I completed law school and tried the practice of
law, while at the same time working in Republican politics. Having ac-
quired a couple of small dailies in 1950, I left the law practice and pre-
pared to dive into newspapering. However, a Congressional Redistrict-
ing put me in a new District the same year and, despite the loss | had
had two years before as a candidate for the State Legislature from Cleve-
land, I became a candidate. Thirteen months and 98,000 miles later, I
found myself the Republican nominee, was elected to the 83d Congress,
and re-elected to the 84th Congress. After deciding not to run again in
1956, because of some health problem, I joined the Governor’s Cabinet as
Director of Commerce for a relatively short period and then returned
home to the newspapers and various other business interests.

Once again, however, I found myself deeply embroiled in politics,
this time on an organization rather than an elective basis. In 1962, our
three children being then all away at school, the opportunity once again
presented itself to run for Congress and after a tough campaign against
the incumbent I was elected to this 88th Congress.

It has been my good fortune, far more than the above outline would
indicate, to participate rather fully not only in the law but more espec-
ially in business, in finance and politics, All can be challenging and
stimulating, but I must admit that there is a vitalness, as well as a serious-
ness, in the challenge of Government which makes life overfull.

Thus, our 25th year out finds our family of five happy and I am glad
to say healthy, and up to our necks in the contest that involves our whole
country this year.

98 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

PAUL HYDE BONNER, JR.

    

HOME ADDRESS: The Bridge, Plow Lane, Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Condé Nast Publications, Inc. 420 Lexington Ave., New
York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939,

arriep: Charlotte Maud Rantoul, Nov. 9, 1944. camp: Paul Augustus, May 14,
1951.

occupation: Book editor for magazine publisher.

MEMBER OF: The Coffee House; Brotherhood of Associated Book Travellers.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, “A Taste for the Sea.’ by David A. Neal, published in The
Texas Quarterly, spring, 1963.

After leaving Harvard, 1 went to Los Angeles and eventually, with
some discreet parental help, got a job in the publicity department of
Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer. | tried, but it was not my métier. The excite-
ment over Andy Hardy’s first kiss did not communicate itself to me. It
was still the era of the big studio and the big stars, and it was all pretty
zany.

After a year or so, the war in Europe cut off the foreign market, and
all the studios indulged in wholesale firing. I came back East and ap-
plied for the Army Air Corps, since it seemed to me that war was
coming and it would be wise to try to get a commission. I passed my
physical while great strapping men around me were discarded for myopia

or high blood pressure, and was sent to Albany, Georgia, for primary

flight training. 1 did not catch on to the intricacies of getting a plane
back onto the ground and after six weeks ended up where I had started.

I was told, however, that with a few college credits in mathematics and

physics, I could become a navigator. I enrolled at the University of New

Hampshire near home and got the credits. I discovered that I had an

innate knack for, of all things, trigonometry, but I have never been able

to find out what you do with trigonometry once you have learned it.
Typically, the Air Corps had no immediate need for navigators by the

time I had got the credits. After some negotiation and a trip to head-

quarters in Washington, it turned out that they needed armament officers.

1 signed on and was sent to Lowry Field at Denver where I learned the

workings of a thirty-caliber machine gun from one of the finest teachers

I have ever known. He was a burlesque comedian in what we used to

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 99

call real life, and he acted out the entire cycle of the firing of the gun.
It was memorable, as good as Merriman, although the style was different.

With F.D.R. reposing special trust in me and gold bars on m
shoulders I was sent to Langley Field, Virginia. When 1 arrived, the
post adjutant said to a colleague: “Oh my God, another armament
officer.” I was put in intelligence. After the Germans landed in Crete,
a crash program of glider construction and glider pilot training was
started. I volunteered, impelled by the offer of flight pay. Then fol-
lowed a summer of training in Minnesota, Ohio, and Arkansas. Wings
at last!

Finally, in June of 1943, the outfit was sent overseas to Oujda, Morocco,
then Kariouan, Tunisia, then to Sciacca, Sicily, then to Grantham, Eng-
land. At last I got to fly a glider —on a mission to Eindhoven in Hol-
land as part of the ill-fated Arnhem venture. Holland is the perfect
country to land a glider in; it’s nice and flat.

I was in London on leave for V-E Day, which is something to re-
member. My reasons for being there lead me to introduce the in-
triguing topic of Romance. While at Harvard I had twice met a girl at
parties in Boston who seemed unusually simpatico, but she lived way out
in Ipswich so that getting hold of her was a problem. I did offer to
take her to the circus, primarily because she had never seen one, but I
got appendicitis, and my mother had to call her and break the sad news.
I have since taken her to the circus, but the Wallendas made her
nervous.

While in Sicily, my turn came to go to rest camp on Capri. Not that
I was particularly tired; it was just my turn, so 1 went. The first night
there I was sitting in the hotel bar, when a Red Cross girl with a mildly
familiar face came in. I knew I knew her, but I got the name wrong, a
fact which is brought up to me occasionally during tense moments.
She explained to me who she really was and politely inquired about my
appendectomy, all of which I found oddly disturbing. We had a mar-
velous week together. :

I went on to England and she to Corsica. We corresponded madly,
and I even got so I could read her handwriting. Then she was sent home,
had a month’s leave and applied for England. I was gliding into Holland
when she arrived, but when I got back I received a garbled message and
rushed to London. I saw my father, who was there on some high-level

mission, and he advised against wartime marriages. So 1 proposed, was
accepted (those were pretty good letters I had been writing for nine
months), and we told my father next morning. He choked on a piece
of sausage. We were married in London. Charlotte’s English cousins
and aunts and a godmother she hadn’t told me about all showed up, and
my colonel flew almost the entire headquarters down from Grantham.
It was the best wedding I’ve ever been to.

After V-E Day they let me come home, and Charlotte was allowed to
come back, too. We took the summer off, visiting relatives on both
sides. Hers were very polite; mine didn’t have to be. I began looking
for a job, and I found that times had changed. Not many people were
loose yet, and companies had the red carpet out for likely-looking young
men. I had to choose, which surprised me, since I had no visible commer-
cial assets whatsoever. I went to the Viking Press where I was put in

100 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

the sales department and got two years of first-class education in the
book business. Then Charles Scribner's Sons thought I was the man
they were looking for; perhaps they thought another Harvard man might
turn out as well as Max Perkins had. I was there for three years as the
resident mail order specialist, a case of on-the-job training if there ever
was one, but I did manage to sell some books for them.

At that time, the late and much lamented Al Kornfeld was editor of
House & Garden. He wanted someone to make secondary use of ma-
terial in his magazine, in short to gather the material into books. It was
one of the best ideas he ever had, both for me and for Condé Nast, and
I have been doing it ever since. I suffer the common complaints, I am
grossly overworked, grossly underpaid, and I feel strongly that more at-
tention should be paid to my advice. I shall retire in fifteen years, and
they will find out how irreplaceable lam.

We live in Greenwich, a compromise between the suburbs and the ex-
urbs, and we have been there since 1951 when our son Paul was born. If
I can ever get him to do his homework, he might make Harvard, but at
the moment S.\.U. seems more likely.

What else? Oh yes, hobbies. I sail. I came to this only six or seven
years ago, but | am now an addict. I crew for a friend, but since he
doesn’t like to have the tiller during a race and I do, he really crews for

me. I recommend this plan to anyone who can’t afford to buy a 26'2-
foot sloop and maintain it in racing condition. In the winter I have come
back to skiing, mostly to keep my son company. As the salesman at the
ski lodge told me, “At your age, you ought to try these short skis.” He

was right.

NICHOLAS BOONISAR t+

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 259 Shawmut Ave., Boston, Mass.

SP enn toa cc ASR ERE I

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT Io!

KENNETH LORING BOOTH

   

HOME AppDRESS: 1105 Adelaide Ave., Fort Smith, Ark.
OFFICE appRESS: Ward Furniture Manufacturing Co., Fort Smith, Ark.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.; Huntington School, Boston,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: s.B., 1939.
MARRIED: Miriam Ward, Dec. 19, 1943. cHmpREN: John W. Greenough, May 13,

1939 (stepson) ; Kenneth Loring, Jr., Oct. 9, 1946; Jackson Rand and James
Alexander (twins), Oct. 6, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, sales manager, Ward Furniture Manufacturing Com-
pany.
OFFICES HELD: President and director, Southwestern Furniture Marketing Associa-

tion since 1960; member, Board of Governors, Dallas Market Center, since
1962.

MEMBER OF: Hardscrabble Country Club and Town Club, Fort Smith, Ark.; Furni-

ture Club of Chicago; Furniture Club of Dallas; Fort Smith Chamber of
Commerce.

PUBLICATIONS: “Life In These United States,” Reader’s Digest; “The Perfect
Squelch,” Saturday Evening Post, 1952; article in Southwest Furniture News,
_ 1962.

In June, 1939, with no long-range plan in mind, with a vague feeling
that something big was going to pop in Europe that would affect this
country and with a general like for the military as a result of ROTC, I
entered active duty with the Army as a second lieutenant, Field Artillery.
The move was rather timely for in September, 1939, Hitler marched into
Poland and the “big show” was on.

By 1946 I had lived through a practically complete military career.
Second lieutenant to colonel, battery officer to regimental commander,
duty with one Infantry division (the rst), three Armored Divisions
(2d, 6th and rrth), three Airborne Divisions (17th, 82d and rorst), assist-
ant PMS & T at Harvard (Mil. Sci.1 1940-1942), combat in Europe, in-
cluding three Battle Stars and one Invasion Arrowhead, master para-
chutist (forty-four jumps), several medals (Silver Star, Bronze Star and
Presidential Unit Citation) and, perhaps most important, managed to
stay alive and never qualified for the Purple Heart! "

In 1947 on the estimate that no enemy or war was in sight and little
future remained in an Army career, I resigned my commission and en-
tered the fascinating challenge of trying to make a living in civilian life.
Things were progressing fairly well until 1950 when in. August of that

102 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

vear I found my 1947 estimate was inaccurate and I was recalled to ac-
tive duty. In 1952 I] was again released from active duty, awarded a
Legion of Merit for services with the Eighth Army in Korea and once
again took up pursuit of making a living.

“In effect, the twenty-five vears since graduation have been divided be-
tween ten vears for the country and fifteen years for myself. By the soth
Reunion I hope only the latter category is increased.

Overall, life has been quite exciting and fairly rewarding and I feel
strongly that whatever success has been achieved is due in large measure
to the start provided by four years at Harvard. I am happily married,
have one son graduated from Northwestern (’62) and now in the
Peace Corps, one son seventeen, and two twin sons, aged thirteen.

I find my work interesting, love living in a relatively small south-
western town (65,000 people), get to travel extensively to all parts of
the country as part of mv job and am looking forward someday to re-
tiring to Pebble Beach, California, where I recently purchased a home

and manage to spend a good part of the summer months.

LLOYD BOOTH, JR.

  

Lu

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Thorn St., Sewickley, Pa.
OFFICE appREss: Pittsburgh Plate Glass Co., 1 Gateway Center, Pittsburgh 22, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, pecREES: A.B., 1939; M.B.A., 1941.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Field Herman, Oct. 1, 1942. cHrLorEN: Lloyd, 3d, Nov. 21,
1947; Elizabeth Field, Nov. 2, 1949; Charles Herbert, 2d, Dec. 17, 1951.

Occupation: Financial executive; manager of bank relations.

orrices #eLp: Chairman, Board of Deacons, former treasurer, secretary and
deacon since 1954, Presbyterian Church of Sewickley; secretary, Republic
Club, Cleveland Heights, 1950; director and chairman, Finance Committee,
Edgeworth Club, Sewickley, Pa.

MEMBER OF: Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh (former director) ; Har-
vard Club of Western Pennsylvania (former treasurer); Harvard Business
School Association, Society of Financial Analysts, Economic Club, Society of
Real Estate Appraisers (all of Pittsburgh); Germany Philatelic Society.

As | had the pleasure of attending my father’s 25th Reunion at Har-
vard in 1937, | know our forthcoming Meeting i is significant and will be
fun, Since our Class has already published several “Reports,” 1 will try
to condense and update what has already been printed.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 103

1939-1941 Attended Harvard Graduate School of Business Administra-
tion and received my M.B.A.

1941-1945 After working briefly with a New York bank, enlisted in
the U.S. Air Force, and became a weather man due to Harvard math
and physics. Went to Officer Candidate School, became a second lieu-
tenant, September, 1942, and promptly got married to a Boston girl. I
had met her as an undergraduate, and some of you will remember her as
“Bobbie” or “Betty” Herman. (Best thing I ever got out of Harvard.)
Later saw service in the United States and in England and Germany as
a captain in the Air Force.

1945-1950 Financial analyst with The National City Bank of Cleve-
land. Acquired two children, house and responsibilities.

1950-1952 Recalled into the USAF (émvoluntarily) as a major. Was
a Base and Wing Comptroller, which is a staff position similar to a con-
troller in a business concern. I supervised the financial operations of a
Wing in the United States, and at Rhein-Main “Flughafen” in Germany.
Our third “smallfry” came along soon after I went overseas. Saw as much
of Europe as possible on my time off.

1952-63 Went to Pittsburgh. Was briefly in the treasury department
of a steel company, and later joined up with Pittsburgh Plate Glass Com-
pany as a financial analyst. Shifted to treasury, and became manager of
bank relations. This title is a misnomer. While we do banking with
about 500 banks, J assist the treasurer generally in treasury functions. My
principal time is spent working to improve cash flow and collection
techniques, making short term investments of our temporarily surplus
cash, managing our portfolio of domestic and foreign securities, and
keeping track of our financial relations with, and investments in, domestic
and foreign subsidiaries and affiliates. Also, I handle stock and bond
holder services, and supervise a program for assisting transferred em-
ployees through loans, disposal of their real estate, etc.

As for my hobby, I am an avid and dedicated stamp collector. I en-
joy tennis, squash, paddle tennis, etc. Also, we enjoy bridge.

Regarding religious convictions, some are too personal to repeat here,
but I have a feeling that all Christian churches may have failed in their
charitable responsibilities toward the needy, and the federal and local
governments have filled the gap. The atheistic state uses much of our
tax dollar for relief and social services which should have been handled by
the churches. Also, we need less of formality and more of simple ex-
pression and propagation of our belief. I feel it would be undesirable to
have all Christian churches join together as we all have different beliefs.

My political point of view is generally Goldwater Republican, but
not Birch extremist. I believe in expanding the rights and responsibilities
of our colored citizens. We need less government in business and more
business in government. We need to develop aggressive, forceful counter
measures against Communists and Communism, and to maintain an active
missionary attitude toward Socialists, and sympathizers, dupes and fellow
travelers, We need greater effort to spread understanding of the work-
ings of the capitalist system and its benefits. We need to educate the pub-
lic and the world as to the importance of profits and investments to im-
prove the standard of living.

enn

104 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

J am worried that Harvard's popularity with the most brilliant students
may lead to a sterile future. I hope the College will choose its students
with more consideration for their personality and character than for
their academic success. It would be sad to find that twenty-five years
from now, most Harvard graduates were educated and brilliant men, but
poorly paid, whose personalities had prevented them from achiev-
ing the necessary material and financial success to support the great Uni-
versity which inspired their intellectual growth and development.

Perhaps the greatest thing I learned at Harvard was to mentally ques-
tion everything I read and hear, “Veritas” is often hard to find.

ARTHUR ROSS BORDEN, JR.

    

HOME ADDRESS: 906 Sunset Drive, Lexington, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: English Dept. Washington and Lee University, Lexington, Va.;
College Entrance Examination Board, 475 Riverside Drive, New York 27,
N.Y. (temporary). .

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pEcREES: a.B., 1939; a.m., 1941; pH-p., 1950.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Professor of English, Washington and Lee University.

OFFICES HELD: Chief reader in English, Advanced Placement Examinations of
the College Board; member, Writing Sample Committee and Advanced Place-

ment Committee in English of the College Board.

mMeMBeER OF: MLA; NCTE; SAMLA; ODK; TKA; Signet Society.

Two years after graduation I was called from graduate school to active
duty. When it began to look as though I might sit out the war as in-
structor in gunnery at Fort Sill I entered OSS and served, first as com-
mander of British-French-American special forces with the French Army
in France, subsequently as executive officer, later commanding officer of
OSS in Italy, and finally, as deputy director of OSS in Germany. Upon
my return from the war I served a three-year stint as assistant dean of
the College, completing meanwhile the work for the doctorate.

Two years’ teaching in the heart of New York City made me aware
that for me the country is preferable to the city. For twelve years I have
enjoyed that life, surrounded by mountains, in the Shenandoah Valley,
teaching at Washington and Lee University and being in leisure time a
dirt farmer.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 105

During this year I am on leave to the College Entrance Examination
Board, traveling to every state in the country visiting colleges and sec-
ondary schools as a consultant in English and Advanced Placement.

CLARENCE ELIJAH BOSTON

  

   

HOME appress: 30 Mill Rd., Durham, N.H.

OFFICE aDpRESS: University of New Hampshire, Durham, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Anne Evashko, February, 1946. CHILDREN: Bette Ann and Bonne Ann
(twins), Sept. 18, 1946; Clarence Elijah, Jr. (“Chief”), Sept. 13, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Head football coach, University of New Hampshire.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Durham Youth Association; past commander, Ameri-
can Legion.

MEMBER OF: American Football Coaches Association; F. & A.M.

It all started when Dick Harlow asked me in April if I’d ever considered
coaching when I graduated. For the past fifteen seasons I have been the
football coach at the University of New Hampshire, following appren-
ticeships at West Point (1948), Harvard (1940, 1941, 1946, 1947), and
the University School, Shaker Heights, Ohio (1939).

There have been seasons when we were undefeated, when we’ve been
conference champions, when sports writers or coaches have voted me
honors. There have been other seasons when I had to be content to
“wait until next year.” Football with its changing techniques and strate-
gies and situations constantly presents new problems which, in my case,
have been further compounded because U.N.H. has neither the prestige
nor the funding necessary to attract scholar-athletes in the number of
those playing for our opponents. Overall, our success has far outreached
our potential.

In a small college the football coach has a close personal relationship
with his players and gives guidance, counseling and even tutoring on a
day to day basis. When you add to this the preparation necessary for
modern football, there has been precious little time for activities of a
wide scope. Thankfully, I have found time to enjoy and watch with
amazement and awe my lovely and interesting family grow up in this
quiet college town. I have found time, also, to be active in youth activities
and in the Army Reserve. °

106 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

I have enjoyed the challenge here at New Hampshire. I thoroughly
enjoved my coaching stint at West Point under coach Earl Blaik. But,
of all the reams I have coached, I enjoyed my two years with the Harvard
JV’s the most, when I returned at Bill Bingham’s invitation after four
plus years in the Army — most of it with the 3iqth FA Bn in the 80th
Infantry Division. Perhaps it was our closeness in age, our mutual war
experience, or just because we thought football was fun and meant to be
plaved all out to win, I really don’t know. At any rate, we had a ball and
remarkable success,

Frankly, I find it most reassuring working with generation after
generation of college students, because in no way can I detect any lessen-
ing of those basic qualities or characteristics that we all so heartily en-
dorse in a man. Certainly, college students today have quite a different
set of values from our day, but, just as certainly, so does the world,

* ELMORE BOSTWICK, JR.

 

BoRN: Feb. 14, 1918, Houston, Texas. PARENTS: Elmore Bostwick, Alma Simon.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1936,

MARRIED: Josephine J. Adams.
pieD: Killed in action, March 31, 1945, on Luzon.

Elmore Bostwick, Jr., spent one year with our Class and was a mem-
ber of the Glee Club and Radio Club, After college he entered the mo-
tion picture field. He served as a first lieutenant during World War Il
and was killed in action on Luzon. He was survived by his wife.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 107

VINCENT YARDLEY BOWDITCH +

 
 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 109 Coolidge Ave., Rye, N.Y.

JOHN FLURENCE BOWEN

BORN: Dec. 16, 1914, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: John Bowen, Norene McCarthy.
PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Sally Burns. CHILDREN: John; Sarah.

DIED: March 23, 1956, Milton, Mass.

John Flurence Bowen was an official of the John Bowen Company,

Inc., Boston contractors, and president of the Newbury Realty Company
of Boston. He was survived by his wife and children.

108 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

* JOHN GAYLORD BRACKETT, JR.

 
 

porn: Feb, 8, 1918, Arlington, Mass. PARENTS: John Gaylord Brackett, °01, Louise
Clark

PREPARED aT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., 1939,
piep: Aug. 13, 1942, Meridian, Miss.

After college Brackett entered the Law School and was a member of
the senior class when he entered the Army Air Corps. After training he
was commissioned a lieutenant in July, 1942. He was killed in a night
crash of an army airplane and was survived by his parents.

JOSEPH CLARK BRADLEY

   

HOME ADDRESS: 1525 Mimosa Lane, Santa Barbara, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Cate School, Carpinteria, Calif.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: a.B., 1939.
marrieD: Dora 1). Bromfield, Sept. 1, 1945. cuitpreN: Wendy W.; Frederick W. G.
OCCUPATION: Artist; investor.
MEMBER OF: Montecito Country Club; Coral Casino Beach Club; Santa Barbara
Art Association.
Came to Santa Barbara in the fall of 1939 and took up landscape paint-

ing. In the fall of 1941 I joined the American Field Service and began a
year and a half tour of the Middle East with various units of the Armies

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 10g

of the United Kingdom. When I returned in 1943, I was forthwith
greeted by the U.S. Army and spent some time as its guest in Texas,
finally succumbing to ragweed. Thereafter, I returned to Santa Barbara,
married and in one way or another have been pursuing a most elusive art,

RICHARD ERNEST BRAINARD

  
     

   

HOME AppREss: 2085 Oak Hill Rd., Scotch Plains, N.J. 07076.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Albert Verley & Co., Linden, N_J.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Helen Vallado, June 11, 1943. cmitpren: Paul Everett, Feb. 6, 1944;
Carl Anthony, Dec. 6, 1947; Ralph Alan, Jan. 22, 1949; Royce Edwin, April
30, 1951; Christopher Ernest, Sept. 12, 1956; Gregory Arthur, June 18, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Albert Verley & Company, manufacturers
of perfume and flavor concentrates.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Charter Study Commission, Livingston, N.J., 1955; direc-
tor, Family Service of Belleville (N.J.), 1945-47, West Essex (N.J.), 1948-50;
chairman, board of deacons, board of trustees, Pulpit Committee, Building
Committee, Olivet Church, Livingston, N.J., 1950-58.

ROBERT IRVING BRAINARD

ge
re
t

   

 

HOME ApprEss: 1108 Woodland Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15237.

OFFICE appress: Blue Cross of Western Pennsylvania, 1 Smithfield St., Pittsburgh,
a

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

a _Y

110 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., 1939; M.B.A., 1941.

MARRIED: Mary Pettee Skinner, May 22, 1943. CHILDREN: Stephen Ross, July 17,
1945; Robert Irving, Jr. April 8, 1948; Barbara Emilie, Nov. 17, 1950;
Thomas Edwin, Aug. 26, 1953.

occupation: General manager, Data Processing, Blue Cross of Western Penn.

sylvania.

After graduation I spent two very enlightened years at the “B” School,
and was determined to become a “captain of industry” armed with an
M.B.A. degree. When war broke out I soon became an army private in-
stead. Upon induction the Army classified me as an accountant and told
me I would be one for the rest of my life. Quite naturally, therefore,
they discharged me nearly four vears later as a fiscal officer, New York
Ordnance District, with the rank of captain.

As a veteran I decided to leave accounting to the professionals, and to
learn machine accounting at IBM World Headquarters as a tab operator.
Then and there I sensed that Mr. Watson was on the right track, and
climbed upon the bandwagon as a sales representative in New York.
After several years of apprenticeship in this field, it became apparent that
I could earn more money for IBM’s stockholders as a systems analyst for
Union Carbide. For the next nine years I traveled somewhat extensively
to various plants and offices of that company designing and installing
punched-card methods. Meanwhile, my wife and I were busy raising a
family of four children in one of New Jersey’s fast-growing suburbs.
Over a year ago I experienced a moment of truth and relocated to the
city of Pittsburgh as data processing manager, Blue Cross of Western
Pennsylvania. The work is quite challenging, and family is pretty well
settled in a lovely residential area in the North Hills. Sooner or later

we'll return to the fold of community activities (scouting, church work,
etc.), but meanwhile a game of squash and a couple of martinis a week
will provide sufficient diversion. Our eldest boy entered Lafayette Col-
lege as a freshman this fall. With three more to follow in the next decade
austerity at home has become the keynote.

COLERIDGE ALEXANDER BRAITHWAITE

ro rapa ig mee “ “s Mageatag

orga sap gas me, SETI

 

Home appress: 3120 Gilbert St.. Savannah, Ga.; Box 223, Savannah State College,
Savannah, Ga. (mailing address).

OFFICE abpkESS: Dept. of Fine Arts, Savannah State College, Savannah, Ga.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mana.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 11!

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-39. DECREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1941; S.M.E.
(Columbia Univ.), 1951; ep.o. (ibid.), 1952.
MARRIED: Lelia Viola White, Aug. 18, 1948.

occuPATION: Professor of Fine Arts; chairman, Department of Fine Arts, Savannah
State College, Savannah, Ga.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, West Broad Street Y.M.C.A. Membership Campaign,
1960; Chairman, Lyceum Committee, 1943-50, Department of Music, 1944-50,
A. & T. College, Greensboro, N.C.; Chairman, Lyceum Committee, since 1953,
Department of Fine Arts, since 1953, Savannah State College; director, Radio
& Television Programs, A. & T. College, 1943-49.

MEMBER OF: Music Teachers’ National Association; Shawnee Press Associates;
National Education Association; Georgia Teachers’ & Education Association;
National Guild of Piano Teachers; American Association of University Pro-
fessors; American Association of Choral Conductors; American Teachers’
Association; Phi Mu Alpha Sinfonia (Beta Gamma Chapter) ; Music Council,
Chatham County Board of Education; Advisory Board, West Broad Street
YMCA; Vestry, St. Matthew’s Episcopal Church, Savannah, Ga.

PUBLICATIONS: “Music Faces the Future’; “The Human Approach to Music”;
“The Life and Creative Activities of Samuel Coleridge-Taylor”; “The Life and
Creative Activities of James Allen Bland”; “The Life and Creative Activities of
Harry Thacker Burleigh”; several choral compositions and arrangements.

The fleeting years since 1939 have represented many interesting ex-
periences. A sudden but temporary teaching job at Fisk University in
Nashville, Tennessee, took me away from graduate study for a few
months in 1940 and 1941. After a bit more of graduate study at Harvard
I became an Army private at Fort Devens and had worked up to sergeant
before being honorably discharged in 1943.

A couple of weeks later another teaching opportunity came along —
this time a professorship at the large Agricultural and Technical College
in Greensboro, North Carolina, which occupied all of my attention for
seven years. In 1950, two years after our marriage, Lelia and I left North
Carolina, enjoyed a second honeymoon in Bermuda, returned to Cam-
bridge during my mother’s illness and subsequent death, and then settled
in New York to do doctoral work at Columbia.

A fascinating experience of teaching in a New York City Junior High
School consumed the year 1952-53 after I had received the degree, and
there were piano students and organ jobs in churches to use up spare
time. Commuting daily between Orangeburg in upstate New York and
the Big City was becoming quite routine when another college professor-
ship attracted our attention. My wife gave up her New York High
School position, and in September, 1953, we settled in Savannah.

The first year was the worst, it seemed, for we had just lost our first
child, and two months later Lelia’s mother died; but as we became ad-
justed to our new environment and the years began to move along, we
began to cheer up. Lelia returned to New York University to earn her
Master’s degree in elementary education—a switch from her under-
graduate training in home economics but an asset in her daily work in
the public school system. My opportunities at the college have included
developing two major programs (music and art), expanding the facilities,
faculty, and equipment, writing and arranging choral compositions for
the Choral Society, publishing research articles, serving as guest con-
ductor of the Savannah Symphony Orchestra, and, most recently, releas-

ing the first album of music ever recorded by a choral group at the
college.

112 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Amid all of our professional duties, Lelia and I find time for much
church and other civic work. She is a member of several boards, having
served for several years in the Girl Scouts and in other local organiza-
tions, 1 am active with the Boy Scouts, the YMCA, and am serving a
second three-year term on the vestry of St. Matthew’s Episcopal Church.
Several speaking engagements have ranged from commencement ad-
dresses to Church Guild messages.

All in all, we still find time to take periodic trips during weekends,
holidays and some parts of the summer. We often run up to North
Carolina to Lelia’s home or to neighboring states for visits with friends
or to New York or Cambridge at least once or twice a year. My dad, a
retired Cambridge physician in his 86th year, still looks forward to our
visits. We have enjoyed a Thanksgiving holiday in Nassau, and Lelia
has brought back beautiful color slides (our mutual family hobby) of her
trip to California while I was teaching summer school a couple of years
ago. We hope to do some extensive traveling together in the near future.
Especially are we looking forward to returning to Cambridge early in
June, 1964. That will perhaps be the best trip of all!

GEORGE WARREN BRAMHALL

   

HOME ADDRESS: 60 Old Marlboro Rd., W. Concord, Mass.

OFFICE abpRESS: Polaroid Corp., Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecrer: 5.B., 1939. :

MARRIED: Mary Ellen Manion, Oct. 4, 1952. cHmoren: George W., Jr. Dec. 6,
1953; Martha, July 15, 1955; Anne L., Dec. 1, 1957; Robert A., July 4, 1959.

occupation: Photographic purchasing agent.

Except for the first three years out of College, my working life has
been dedicated in its small way to the growth of Polaroid Corporation.
During the past fifteen ycars 1 have been closely associated with the
photographic side of the business and taken part in the transition from
the early sixty second sepia prints to the present fifty second color prints.
My present responsibility is the procurement of raw materials used in
our film products.

It has been and continues to be a rewarding and stimulating career, I
even like to think that | may have made a small contribution to the com-

i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 113

mercialization of a truly scientific achievement in the field of photog-
raphy.

Equally divided with the day’s occupation for time and attention are
the activities that center around my family and home. | find that a young
family (ten, eight, six and four) is about the best fountain of youth. They
stimulate us to keep up with our skating, swimming, sailing and even en-
courage us to try camping. Modern math is nearly the same challenge
as Math 2.

Whatever spare time is left is absorbed with management of real
estate holdings, gardening, and skiing.

WILLIAM SCHROEDER BRANDHORST

 

HOME aporEss: 1418 Shands Ct., Kirkwood, Mo. 63122.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 9827 Clayton Rd., St. Louis, Mo. 63124.

PREPARED AT: Webster Groves High School, Webster Groves, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-39. DEGREES: 8.B., 1939; p.p.s. (Washington Univ.), 1943;
s.m. (Univ. of Michigan), 1948.

MARRIED: Emilie Pontz Pickering, Sept. 19, 1942. cuutprEN: Bruce Peter, Nov. 14,
1944; Robert John, Sept. 9, 1948; Mark William, July 7, 1954.

HARVARD SON: Bruce Peter Brandhorst, ’66.

OCCUPATION: Orthodontist; associate professor of clinical orthodontics, Washing-
ton University School of Dentistry, St. Louis, Mo.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Television, American Dental Association; board mem-
ber and chairman, Denver Summer Meeting, clinics chairman (twice),
American Association of Orthodontists; president, St. Louis Society of
Orthodontists; chairman, Orthodontic Section, American Dental Association;
chairman, Committee on Recruitment, Missouri State Dental Association.

MEMBER OF: American and St. Louis Dental Societies; Missouri State Dental
Association; St. Louis Society of Orthodontists; Midwestern Society of Ortho-
dontists; American Association of Orthodontists; Delta Sigma Delta; Omicron
Kappa Upsilon; St. Louis Society of Dental Science; Harvard Club; Wash-
ington University Alumni Association; Michigan Club; American College of
Dentists (fellow); American Cleft Palate Association; American Society for
Dentistry for Children; Speech and Hearing Association of St. Louis.

Following a short period of selling after my graduation from Harvard,
I became more convinced than ever that a profession should be my
career. I received a degree in dentistry from Washington University
School of Dentistry in 1943. Following a short internship were three

114 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

vears in the service as a dental officer in the Air Force from which I was
discharged as a major.

In the fall of 1942, during my senior year in dental school, I married
Emilie Pickering, a St. Louis girl whom I had known slightly in grade
school. We spent our young vears in many places about the country in
the service and later in school. Our eldest son, Bruce, now a sophomore
at Harvard, arrived in Galveston. Our middle son, Bob, arrived shortly
after our return to St. Louis, and our youngest son, Mark, came a few
years later.

Following my discharge from the Air Force, we spent two years at
the University of Michigan where I received a Master’s degree in
orthodontics in 1948.

We returned to St. Louis where I joined my father in practice and a
vear later started teaching orthodontics on a half-time basis at Washing-
ton University School of Dentistry, eventually becoming an associate
professor. Orthodontics and dentistry have taken much of my energy
over these last twenty-one years. Working with patients and their

roblems has led to a strong interest in the psychological make-up of

people, and the communication of thoughts and ideas both to patients
and students, Orthodontics has within it many intangibles and these have
led a compelling effort toward clarification and definition through the
use of measurement. My recent activity has tied into the image of
dentistry, recruitment of students and the stimulation of continuing
education within the profession. A natural sequence was work with the
Schools and Scholarship Committee of our strong Harvard Club here
in St. Louis.

Peculiar to a specialty in a profession are the numerous meetings in all
parts of the country. Friends and friendships are made from everywhere.
We were delighted this last spring when our travels took us close to St.
Croix in the Virgin Islands and we were able to spend a day with
Classmate John Blair.

My wife and I have had our greatest pleasure in watching the growth
of our three boys. There was real satisfaction in watching our eldest
son, Bruce, choose Harvard where he is doing very well. My wife is a
hiberal Democrat and | tend to vote as a liberal, but while I am interested
in progress, | am concerned about extremes. We are both more inter-
ested in local problems, supporting the best school board candidates,
bringing fluoridation to our community and working for home rule.
As to hobbies, an old interest in photography has continued, and some
of the products on the market for use in dentistry are there because of
this interest of mine, We have done a great deal of building and wood-
working. As the boys grew up, fishing has shaped the old interest in

the out-of-doors.

We are looking forward to the Reunion.

IRIE Be emma tot ELE AST CMLL AOA NET TE LEI TNT IT :

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 115

ROSWELL BRAYTON

       
 
   

   

4

2
*

yoy
4

Pad ito

wo

 

poesnermer SAENGER

HOME ADDRESS: Woolrich, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Woolrich Woolen Mills, Woolrich, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-39. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Catherine Rich, July 21, 1945. cHitprEN: Charlotte Chace, May 27, 1946;
Anne Rich, June 27, 1948; Roswell, Jr., May 8, 1951.

occupation: Executive vice-president, Woolrich Woolen Mills; president, Pearce
Woolen Mills, Inc.; assistant general manager, Chatham Water Company.

OFFICES HELD: School director, Pine Creek Township.

MEMBER OF: First Congregational Church, Fall River, Mass.; Clinton Country
Club; Acoaxet Golf Club; 32° Mason; West Branch Hunting Club; Rotary
Club.

Twenty-five years ago my objectives were to have a family and
eventually become a textile manufacturer. It took six years for me to
find the right girl and about twenty to become a mill manager. The
satisfaction derived from seeing programs and policies succeed has been
worth the frustrations and worries. I expect the next twenty years to be
a continuation of my career of the previous twenty-five.

After graduation I was fortunate to be a member of the Harvard-Yale
track team competing against Oxford and Cambridge in London. After
the meet we were invited to “tea” by Ambassador Kennedy and dinner
at Simpsons. My contacts with the Kennedy Clan have been limited to
this one hospitable occasion, |

Later in the summer of 1939, a group of us bicycled around England
and “flatboated” down the Danube, arriving home just before the out-
break of World War II. The next three years were spent in a textile
mill in Rhode Island.

I enlisted in the Army in June, 1942, and was inducted in December.
After basic training as a medical soldier at Devens, E was about to apply
for OTS when advised to go into the Army Specialist Training Pro-
gram. Upon completion of a year's study in German at the University
of Pittsburgh, the class was told they would be promoted and assigned
to ficld intelligence units. As the fortunes of war turned our, there was
less need for college-trained specialists or “head shrinkers” and more need
for front-line troops. [ was assigned to a medical unit in the osth
Infantry Division, Most of the time that we were in Europe, our Division

Nea TESLA TILT ae Ene a rT Teen oT T EINE nee osname

116 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

was part of Patton’s Third Army. Tending and transporting the wounded
from the battlefield and helping at the aid stations gave one a feeling of
fulfilling a minor but necessary role. For swimming across the Saar
River in winter to get transportation for the wounded, I was awarded
the Silver Star.

Our Division returned to the United States in July, 1945. A few days
later I married Catherine Rich. Our Division was spared going to the
Pacific by Japan surrendering a few days before our scheduled departure.
After three years in the Army, I found it a relief to make a home with
my wife in East Greenwich, Rhode Island, returning to work at Warwick
Mills. The next eight years were spent there where I received intensive
training in the various aspects of textile mill management.

In September, 1953, our family moved to the small community of
Woolrich, located in Central Pennsylvania. At the present time, I am
executive vice-president of Woolrich Woolen Mills and president of a
subsidiary, Pearce Woolen Mills. Over the last fifteen years, the woolen
industry has been going through the pains of drastic contraction. I find
it an absorbing task to keep modernizing operations so as to meet sharp
competition from at home and abroad and at the same time continually
raise the wage scale. Operating a smaller type of corporation requires
a diversity of functions, not leaving much time for non-occupational
work.

I have enjoyed being a member of the area joint school board.
Attending board meetings and serving on committees, I have helped
contribute in a small way to the steady improvement in the local school
system. We have a summer home at Westport Harbor, Massachusetts.
I find the need for occasional weekends and vacations at the seashore, far
removed from the problems of the mill.

Although the sons of Harvard belong to a rare species in my part of
Pennsylvania, I am pleased to be one, for Harvard provided the means
of obtaining a sound education. Without this, very few of us would
have developed the essential qualities of leadership. I hope my son will
also have the opportunity to be a Harvard man.

As I am opposed to the Federal Government continually taking on
more functions and powers, 1 am a Republican. However, I feel we,
as individuals, must endeavor to meet the needs of our communities and
fellow citizens as much as possible on the local level, working through

our businesses, charities and churches. Our economy based on capitalism
enables us to have a better way of life than any other type, but all of us
in positions of leadership, whether in a business or a profession, must
recognize all economic classes must share in the increasing benefits of
our expanding economy. ‘

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 117

ELLIOTT BRESNICK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 48 Welland Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 68 Bay State Rd., Boston 15, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEcREES: a.B., 1939; m.v., cum laude (Tufts Coll.),
1943.

married: C. Judith Levine, April 20, 1947 (died 1962). cHmpren: Richard Mark,
June 30, 1949; Joan Marjorie, April 3, 1954.

occupaTion: Physician, specializing in internal medicine and cardiology.

OFFICES HELD: Clinical instructor in medicine and senior instructor in physiology,
Tufts University Schools of Medicine and Dental Medicine; associate visiting
physician, Boston City Hospital; visiting physician and electrocardiographer,
Jewish Memorial Hospital, Boston; associate in medicine, Beth Israel Hospital,
Boston; member, Medical Staff, Brooks Hospital, Brookline; courtesy medical
staff, Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals, Boston; president, Phi Delta Epsilon
Graduate Club of Boston (medical fraternity), 1960.

MEMBER OF: National Board of Medical Examiners (diplomate) ; American Board
of Internal Medicine (diplomate); Alpha Omega Alpha (honor medical
society) ; Massachusetts Medical Society; American and Massachusetts Heart
Associations; New England Cardiovascular Society; American Federation for
Clinical Research; American and Massachusetts Societies of Internal Medicine;
New Century Club of Boston.

PUBLICATIONS: Twenty-two papers in various medical journals, including “Pul-
monary Function Studies in Bronchial Asthma. I. In the Control State,” with
J. A. Herschfus and M. S. Segal, January, 1953. Same authors and title, “II.
After Treatment,” January, 1953, American Journal of Medicine; “Clinical
Experiences with a New Orally Administered Mercurial Diuretic,” with J.
Abramson, New England Journal of Medicine, October, 1953; “How Does
Pregnancy Affect the Course of Rheumatic Heart Disease?”, Medical Forum:
Modern Medicine, December, 1960.

After graduation came four years at Tufts Medical School and intern-
ship at Boston City Hospital. Then came three years in the Army, of
which two were spent in France and Germany working in large hospital
units as captain, Medical Corps. Then there were two more years of
training at the Boston City Hospital as a research fellow in medicine and
cardiology from Tufts, finishing the training requirements for the
American Board of Internal Medicine, which certified me after appro-
priate time in practice and then examinations. I've been practising
internal medicine and cardiology in Boston since 1948. For the same
period of time I have been teaching physiology at Tufts Medical and

= . = aT aerated tenement teemim ante “

118 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Dental Schools, something actually begun while I was still a medical
student. ;

In 1947 I married Judy Levine who presented me with Richard in
1949 and Joan in 1954. Judy and I managed to have fifteen years together
before her sudden and untimely death at forty-two, just a year after we
had purchased a home such as she had always wanted.

Besides teaching and practising on the stats of several hospitals, I
have been engaged in clinical research and have so far published some
twenty-two papers in various medical journals. Membership in a number
of medical societies has further consumed my time. I have also been
very active in our medical fraternity from medical school to now. I was
resident of its graduate club of Boston, and only my wife’s passing
prompted me to reject temporarily a higher regional office.

For recreation I enjoy golf very much, but never have managed to get
out there enough to be better than an ordinary-type “duffer.” My
tennis is improved, oddly enough at this age, but I hope my son can
soon run me right off the courts, Love of good music dates back to
high school and Harvard days with orchestras, bands and The Band,
but I haven’t touched the old horn since one of the last Harvard Band
alumni reunions — at a Dartmouth game, I think it was.

We have started —I think and hope —to come around a bit and to
look forward to the 25th as a part of a “beginning again” until I can once
again know where and how I’m heading.

  

HOME Appress: 2039 N. Commonwealth Ave., Chicago, Hl.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Prudential Insurance Co., Prudential Plaza, Chicago, Ill,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1939-1939, perches: s.s., 1939; mop. (New York Univ.), 1943.

Maghiep: Ruth Priscilla Overgaard, Dee, 3, 1955. CHILDREN: Robert DuBois, 3d,
Oct. V5, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Physician; assoriate medical director, Prudential Insurence Company.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 11g

RUSSELL ANTHONY BRIGGS

ee
- 5

   

HOME ADDRESS: Rock Island, Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 240, Sparta, Tenn.

PREPARED AT: Riverdale Country School, New York City.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936.

MARRIED: Leah Hatcher, June 24, 1937. cHitpREN: Carol Hamilton, June 20, 1939
(m. Marshall A. Peeples, June 16, 1960); Russell Anthony, Jr., April 2,
1941; Thurston H., June 12, 1945; Andrew B., March 19, 1949. GRANDCHILD:
Natasha Lynn Peeples, July 30, 1962.

OCCUPATION: Sparta Spoke Factory, Inc.; hardwood furniture dimension; agricul-
tural implement parts; vice-president, sales.

MEMBER OF: Civitan-Sparta- White County Chamber of Commerce; Sparta Country
Club.

We're more than ever enthusiastic about the Tennessee hills. Al-
though we have to go elsewhere to find cultural advantages and cosmo-
politan conversation, we find here beautiful country, easy friendships and
individual integrity. Our work is absorbing and stimulating and, there-
fore, fun. Politically, we disagree with most of our neighbors. Here as
elsewhere people tend to vote their bellies, but we happen to think the
most palatable and nourishing food lies to the right of the road we are
traveling.

As we approach the half-century mark, we find that the physical
limitations are not excessive and are more than offset by newly acquired
capabilities,

Our program for the next twenty-five years is to make more monev,
take more vacations, and renew more friendships with "39ers, And re-

member, our latch key is always out; in fact, Leah savs we don’t even
have one.

120 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

NORMAN HAROLD BRISSON

oo

   
 

%
y

2
3

 

HOME ADDRESS: 28 Lorna Rd., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 35 Park Drive, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939,
MARRIED: Divorced. cHip: David Jay, May 4, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Real estate.

MEMBER: Harvard Club of Boston.

The early days after graduation were spent in Detroit with the Chevro-
let Motor Division, General Motors Corporation where I was employed
originally as an industrial analyst and eventually as assistant to the man-
ager of the territory development department. Here I created and wrote
programs for use by Chevrolet Motor Division personnel. While in
Detroit, I was one of a group which met on occasions at the University
Club and elsewhere and which constituted the clubhouseless Harvard
Club of Michigan.

During the war I was concerned with machine tools, cutting tools and
abrasives; at first with the War Production Board in Washington, D.C.,
where I was among other things assistant administrator of Order M-89
(on industrial corundum), and then later as a naval officer, setting up a
central tool shop in one navy yard and administering part of the Navy
Department’s program for the conservation of cutting tools and high
speed tool steels.

Released from the Naval Reserve, I came back to Boston to visit my
family and stayed here ever since, taking over the management of several
family-owned properties and becoming on my own a real estate owner
and manager. [his way of life—a long way from my original path —
dealing with an economic microcosm as contrasted with the macrocosm
of General Motors Corporation and the United States Government has
been just as interesting and worth while.

Now that I have made my little impact on, and have been immersed
in, both business worlds — the big and the small — I look forward to less
business activity and more frequent travel opportunities, as well as more
time for my reading, mostly in history and philosophy; so that in 1964 I
shall be looking forward to taking my son David to the New York
World’s Fair in April; to a second trip to Italy in May; and to crossing

the River to Cambridge to our Twenty-fifth Reunion in June.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT I21

HOWARD SEYMOUR BROD

mney enperaptne oe nore irrenence—roey al

i
3
%
i

  

3

. sng ly

6
ogg er ~

“ .
4 '

ey 7”

HOME AbpRESS: Oak Lane, Old Brookville, Long Island, N.Y.; 13 W. 13th St., New
York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Maradel Products, 510 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Manlius Military Academy, Manlius, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., cum laude, 1939.

mMaRRIED: Della Elizabeth Worrell, March 7, 1947. cumpren: Della Ann, March
1, 1949; Howard Worrell, May 13, 1951.

occuUPATION: Vice-president and general manager, Commerce Drug Company and
House of Tre-Jur (Divisions of Maradel).

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

sere

pragyrcseicere ere reece seme eR ere Em
ee ” / 1
x

The twenty-four years since graduation have been full and pleasant.
I have lived in New York, Florida, Washington, D.C., California — and
back between times to New York. I have worked for a number of
companies and for myself. In all, I’ve made fewer compromises than I
had expected.

After a fling at my own business in Florida before the war (a neon
sign shop — why? ), I worked for Time, Inc.; as a merchandising con-
sultant for Lever Brothers; for the old Milton Biow Agency; for a west
coast comestic tycoon; for American Home Products, and now for a
fledgling and acquisition-minded group called Maradel Products.

I have largely spent my time in the drug business and have been most
active in the area of new product development and marketing. It is to
be reckoned with that at some future date I may have to explain away
my role in burdening our culture with chlorophyll toothpaste, home
permanents that need no neutralizer solution, hemorrhoid ointments that
save you from the friendly offices of the surgeon, iodine that doesn’t
sting (or poison), throat lozenges that (temporarily) STOP (minor)
PAIN (quite) FAST, and, coming in the next chapter, pills that digest
your hot dogs for you, plus, most fantastic of all, a nasal inhaler for
people with two nostrils (it has a double barrel).

This kind of activity is exciting and interesting to me. As to convic-
tions, each year I lose more of them and accept others with more
tolerance and less enthusiasm.

War service was with the American Field Service in Africa, the
Middle East and Europe. Outside activities consist of squash and tennis
and omnivorous reading — particularly in the area of pre-Columbian
cultures and ancient Middle Eastern cultures.

th

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ARTHUR HENDRICKS BROORS, JR.

rsonomag
a
3

  
  

PL REAOLONEALE LEO ALOE LOTTERY EMME

HOME abpReSss: 115 Brattle St., Cambridge, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Arthur H. Brooks, Jr. & Associates, Architects, 15 Brattle St,

Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pecREEs: s.B., 1939; B.aRcH., 1942.
MARRIED: Jean Halladay, March 20, 1942. CHILDREN: Elizabeth, Nov. I, 1942;

Arthur Hendricks, Jr., June 27, 1944.

occuPATION: Architect.
OFFICES HELD: Director, International Student Association of Greater Boston, since

1954, Massachusetts Congregational and Charitable Society, since 1952, Bos-
ton Dispensary, 1958-62, Religious Arts Guild, 1955-59, Cambridge Tennis
Club, since 1954; president, Cambridge Skating Club, since 1949; trustee,
Browne and Nichols School, since 1960, Merry Frances Barnard Home for the
Aged, since 1952, Boston Arts Festival, since 1962; corporation member,
Cambridge Savings Bank, since 1960; member of Corporation, Mt. Auburn
Hospital, since 1955, North Avenue Savings Bank, since 1959, Family Society
of Cambridge, 1957-63, Beaver Country Day School, since 1957; member,
‘Cambridge Republican City Committee, 1955-56, City of Cambridge Building
Board of Appeals, since 1961, Cambridge Historic Districts Committee, since
1963.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Massachusetts State Association of

Architects; Boston Society of Architects; The Country Club; Somerset Club.

JOHN WOOD BROOKS

Ply
<7

-
des

   

y ie . y '

HOME appiess: 65 Cherry St., Katonah, N.Y.
orrice apparss: Celanese Corp, of America, 522 Fifth Ave., New York 36, N.Y.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 123

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Patricia Bell, December, 1941 (divorced 1958); Margaret Ogilvie, July,
1958. CHILDREN: Sylvia Benedict, June 3, 1946; John Wood, Jr., Dec. 12, 1950;
Laurence Oakley, July 24, 1953; Anne MacKean Strong, Sept. 7, 1944; Mary
Ledyard Strong and Selina Clark Strong (twins), Dec. 1, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Industry.

PHILIP BROOKS

    

HOME aAppress: Althea Lane, Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Distillers, 99 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pDEGREE: 4.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Eleanora Eaton, March 1, 194]. cuHipren: Eaton, Feb. 8, 1943; Gwendo-
lyn, Oct. 6, 1944.

occuPATION: Marketing manager, National Distillers.
OFFICES HELD: Director, Darien Library Association.
MEMBER OF: Tokeneke Club, Darien, Conn.; Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Patented special closure for salt packages assigned to the Interna-
tional Salt Company.

This year my daughter, Gwen, enters Bradford Junior College and
my son, Eaton, returns to the University of North Carolina as a sopho-
more — and thus life enters a new stage. Up to this point the motivation
and excitement in our family life has been raising two children, our
expanding community life and advertising which has been my career
for the past twenty-four years.

Now we look forward to more travel and other fulfillments. One of
these is my hobby, which is inventing new household products for mail
order advertising. We look forward with great zest to what the future
may bring to us, our children, our community, country and our world.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

124

ARTHUR EDWARD BROWN, JR.

       

     

- lS aD SEELEY AIT COB St ib ih

i &

 

yome appress: 10 Lanark Rd., Wellesley Hills 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 501 Boylston St., Boston 17, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Haxrisburg Academy, Harrisburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREES: a.B., 1939; mp. (Temple Univ.), 1943;
s.m. (ibid.), 1949.

marriep: Margaret Anne Stewart, April 26, 1947. cuitpreN: John O. Cockey, 3d,
Dec. 4, 1943 (stepson) ; Arthur, July 6, 1948; Nancy, April 14, 1950; Robert,

Feb. 27, 1952.
occuPATION: Associate medical director, New England Mutual Life Insurance

Company.

OFFICES HELD: Harrisburg Hospital: chief, Medical Out-Patient Dept., 1949-52;
associate, Indoor Medical Service, 1952-56; assistant, Cardiac Service, Out-

Patient Dept.; Cardiac Service — Special assignment to set up unit for angio-

cardiography and cardiac catheterization, 1955-56; associate in medicine,

Affiliate Hahnemann Medical School and Hospital; Pennsylvania Heart As-

sociation, member of Standing Committee on Public Information and Educa-
tion, 1956; Tri-County Heart Association; program chairman, executive and
medical advisory committees for three years, board of directors, two years,
Dauphin County Medical Society: Scientific Program Committee, and Com-
mittee for Contagious Diseases; chairman, Obesity Commission; Harrisburg
Academy of Medicine: chairman, Scientific Program Comm.; Massachusetts
State Health Comm., Health Insurance Council, Medical Relations Sub-Com-
mittee; secretary-treasurer, New England Insurance Group of Life Insurance
Medical Directors, since 1962; Executive Council, Association of Life Insurance
Medical Directors of America (1963 for three years); clinical assistant in
medicine, Massachusetts General Hospital, since 1956.
MEMBER OF: American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate) ; American College
of Physicians (fellow); American College of Chest Physicians (fellow) ;
American College of Cardiology (fellow); International Society of Internal
Medicine; American Federation for Clinical Research (senior member) ;
Massachusetts and American Societies of Internal Medicine; Life Insurance
Medicine and Association of Life Insurance Medical Directors of America
(member of board).

PUBLICATIONS: “Peptic Ulcer,” American Gastroenterological Association (Sec-
tion on Drug Therapy), W. B. Saunders Company, 1951; “How Safe is Cation
Exchange Resin Therapy When Used in Private Practice?” Annals of Internal
Medicine, June, 1954; “Clinical Experience with a New Combination of Hy-
potensive Agents,” American Journal of Medical Sciences, October, 1955;
“Analysis of Digital Plethysmographic Blood Flows with New Method of
Measurement,” Angiology, April, 1957; “The Medical Examiner and_ the
Changing Scene,” Board of Life Insurance Medicine, 1962; “Trends in Medical
Underwriting of the Gastro-Intestinal System,” Board of Life Insurance
Medicine, 1963,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 125

During the summer of 1939, as in previous summers, I taught in summer
school in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania; but come the fall of 1939 I entered a
new life—that of a medical student. Dr. Dave Widder, professor of
mathematics, had told me my majoring in mathematics would always
serve me in good stead, would always help in well-ordered and logical
thinking, no matter what my field of major endeavor. I hope that this
has been at least partially true.

Medical school I found to be a wonderful place. 1 had taken a full
turn. It was in the fourth grade that I first said I wanted to be a doctor,
but in late academy and early college years I had turned toward mathe-
matics. Now feeling more at home than I had for years, 1 became com-
pletely engrossed during the school years and summers in this new learn-
ing. Was president of my junior and senior classes and of the honorary
society.

From medical school I went to the Philadelphia General Hospital for
my internship; then to the Army where I was, medically speaking, most
fortunate. Having previously made the decision to go into internal medi-
cine, I now was happy to be on cardiovascular-renal wards in general
hospitals in this country. An opportunity to go to X-ray school presented
itself, and it was grasped. Then followed a period of probably a year
and a half working under a well-trained radiologist. Finally this culmi-
nated in the Pacific where I did X-ray work first under my excellent
chief and later as my own chief. This was a busy time doing the work
for field and evacuation hospitals as well as on my own numbered general
hospital and even a fleet hospital. During the final phase of this period in
the Pacific I was for a short time commanding officer of a numbered
general hospital (which was being de-activated )!

This X-ray training has ever since stood me in good stead, and I have
often looked back on this period and thought how very fortunate I was.
After discharge I returned to Philadelphia for my three years of fellow-
ship in internal medicine, and it was during this tme that I met and mar-
ried Peg.

We were going to stay on in Philadelphia —I in academic medicine.
But just as the new phase was to begin I heard of some men starting a
group in Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, my home town. So from late 1949
until July, 1956, we practised group medicine as the Harrisburg Clinic,
the only group in central Pennsylvania. Our number grew from the
original five to nine, and I think it was good medicine that we practised,
but unfortunately in July, 1956, we dissolved the group.

At this point pure happenstance took me to the New England Mutual
Life Insurance Company as an assistant medical director, and I have been
with them ever since, The longer I stay the more I enjoy it and the more
fascinating the new life becomes.

Another phase of my life had started. While attempting to keep up
with medicine through joining the staff of the Massachusetts General
Hospital, teaching fourth-year Harvard medical students, and through
other means, I now started learning an entirely new profession. This in-
cluded not only “insurance medicine,” but the business itself. So having
informed my family years ago that I had taken my last examination, |
was now once again “studying for exams”; have taken, I believe, ten
such exams since entering this new business with more to come.

126 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

This continued learning, and particularly in different fields while you
hold on to the previous ones, has been stimulating. It particularly has
been exciting because this has been a period of great change in the medi-
cal profession, economically and sociologically. Great changes have
already come about and more are yet to come. It has been a wonderful
opportunity to view this great movement from both sides, the side of the
private medical practitioner which I was for a good many years, and the
side of business and economics as practised by a large corporation in the
health field.

1 hope I shall be able to continue to work in this field for many years
to come —and right here in Boston, for my wife and children, trans-
planted though they may be from Maryland and Pennsylvania, couldn’t
be happier. We like New England.

BRUCE ROW BROWN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 73] Grove St., Framingham Centre, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 12] Lincoln St., Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecress: A.B., 1939; mp. (Tufts Coll.), 1944.

MARRIED: Sally Mosser, March 13, 1943. cHitoren: Bruce Row, Jr., June 28, 1949;
David Mosser, Dee. 27, 1951; Ellen McCormick, Nov. 10, 1954.

occupation: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Town Meeting Representative, 1960-63; senior warden, St. An-
drew’s Episcopal Church, 1961-63.

MEMBER OF: Several professional societies; Webhannet Golf Club, Kennebunk
Beach, Maine.

PUBLICATIONS: Several professional papers in medical journals.

What comes next naturally is unknown, but to date I consider myself
fortunate. After college I attended Tufts Medical School, graduating in
1944. In March, 1943, I married. This well may have been the most
successful effort of my post ’39 life. The years 1944-48 were spent in
either Boston, New York City or Berkeley, California, while I completed
my training. We took up military life (army) at a late date, 1953, with
two children (boys), and retired in disorder in toss after adding a
daughter to the organization,

We live in a town I grew "P in, which may not be romantic but
indicates consistency of a sort. 1 practised internal medicine here for

a iene OLE LS a a a te ceesaa at aaneen ings imenne cane ait taaceceiaasdananiainauiindinants

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 127

five years and then in 1955 became a commuter to Worcester, Massachu-
setts, in order to spend more time in a sub-specialty of internal medicine
known as hematology. We live in a contemporary house in the country,
with considerable surrounding land which keeps us busy trying to keep
up with it.

My non-medical efforts have centered around the above-mentioned
real estate, skiing, golf and the challenging responsibility of three children.
Weare a family of fairly active church affiliation. Mild political activity
has been savoured locally as a Town Meeting Member, plus one unsuc-
cessful attempt at higher elective office (school committee).

If you asked me, which you haven't, what’s the biggest problem of our
society, | would answer: inability to appeal to and obtain enough of
the right people for government service on a long haul basis.

CHARLES RUFUS BROWN +

 
    

IAST MAILING ADpDRESS: R.F.D., Gilman St., Yarmouth, Maine.

HAROLD BROWN

  

HOME aporess: 2330 Gramercy Blvd. Houston, Texas 77025.

OFFICE AbpRESS: Dept. of Medicine, Baylor Medical School, Houston, Texas.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1935-1939, pecRrEns: Ag, magna cum laude, 19390; xp, 1943,

128 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

marrieD: Mary Elinor McMullen, 1942 (divorced 1949); Norma Cranney, May
19, 1950. cHiupREN: Noroldine Ray, 1946; David William, June 15, 195);
Martha Elizabeth, Dec. 7, 1952; Jack Harold, Oct. 4, 1954.

occupation: Professor of medicine, chairman, Metabolism’ Section, Baylor Uni-
versity College of Medicine; consultant, Veterans Administration Hospital; di-
rector, Baylor Clinical Research Center.

OFFICES HELD: President, Western Section, American Federation for Clinical Re.
search, 1955; member of Council, Western Society for Clinical Research, 1960-
63, American Association for Study of Liver Disease, 1956; member, Research
Advisory Board, Houston Community Council, 1962; chairman, Houston Unitar-
ian Service Committee, 1962-64.

MEMBER OF: American Society for Clinical Investigation; American College of
Physicians; Western Association of Physicians; American Association for the
Advancement of Science; New York Academy of Medicine; Houston Society
of Internal Medicine; Texas State Medical Association; American Medical
Association; Houston Council on Human Relations; Houston Council on
World Affairs; Houston Association for the United Nations; Houston Sym-
phony Society; Museum of Fine Arts; Contemporary Arts Association; Hous-
ton Museum of Natural Science; Boy Scout Advisory Committee.

PUBLICATIONS: About seventy articles in medical scientific journals and textbooks,

It is a shock to assess those years which are usually considered the
period of maximum productivity! Many of them were taken up by
medical school, internship, military service in the ETO, and a three-year
residency in internal medicine. In 1947 I joined the new medical school
at the University of Utah at Salt Lake City. After divorce and remar-
riage came a span of constructive years— the buildings of career, home,
and a family of three children, with deep roots in the community.

In 1957 we availed ourselves of an opportunity to live in Bangkok,
Thailand, for two years where I worked for the State Department as
visiting professor of medicine at the Chulalongkorn Medical School.
This was a rich experience for all the family. While there I had occasion
to travel in all the countries of Asia except mainland China and I gained

invaluable insights into the attitudes of the people in these areas. We
became very interested in the problems of developing countries and
anticipate further service of this nature during our retirement years, A
leisurely journey home included India, Nepal, Turkey, Greece, and
Europe where we spent six weeks as gypsies in a littlhe VW. After our

return to Utah where we remained for two years, I accepted a position

at the Baylor Medical School in Houston, Texas. I am involved in the
development of the Metabolic Section in the Department of Medicine in
this rapidly expanding medical school.

Though my wife is a nurse and anticipates returning to her career in
nursing education, she considers homemaking to be her primary calling
during these years of child rearing. She works as intently in volunteer
work as she did professionally. Our family is unanimously enthusiastic
over skiing, camping, water sports, and nature lore. Among the children
we have a budding classic guitarist who also plays tennis, a potential
horsewoman who is a pianist, and a young rock-hound who wants to be
an archaeologist. Life is full of promise!

As we grow older, accumulate experience, and make observations, it
seems to us that we see more clearly our role as a family in our com-
munity; this awareness enables us to participate with some conviction of
the worth of Scouting, church, League of Women Voters, YWCA (even
PTA) as movements toward improving the environment. We like to

ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 129

think that we are helping to shape our culture rather than being shaped
by it. We find considerable support among fellow religious liberals and
philosophical Democrats. It seems to me that the great challenge of our
time is to find opportunities to be productive and obtain satisfactions
even in the midst of imperfect situations and confusingly changing times,

ROBERT PEABODY BROWN

    

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Avon St., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 217 Newbury St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., 1939; B.ARCH., 1943.

MARRIED: Polly E. Faulkner, Nov. 21, 1942 (divorced 1956): Katharine Eisenhart
Compton, 1960. cHILDREN: Helen Parrish, Radcliffe ’66, Oct. 7, 1943; Robert
Peabody, Jr., June 15, 1946; Phillida Faulkner, Sept. 27, 1949; John P.
Compton, 1949; Christina A. Compton, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Architect, own private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Subcommittee on Neighborhood Design, Boston Society
of Architects, 1963; vestryman, Christ Church, Cambridge, 1963-66.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Massachusetts State Association of
Architects; Boston Society of Architects; Modular Building Standards Asso-
ciation; Harvard Club of Bosten; Mountain View Country Club; Harvard
Varsity Club.

After graduation from architectural school, and being spared a first
hand knowledge of the horrors of war, which produced very mixed
feelings and a short turn of unskilled work in a war plant, I entered the
field of prefabrication which seemed to be the only answer to what must
be a massive housing shortage by the time we were able to build again.
After fifteen years, I was convinced that prefabrication was coming into
its own by evolution rather than revolution, and set about using it
instead of designing it. After a suitable number of years working in
architects’ offices, I opened my own and now have no one to blame for
my mistakes. Except, of course, my clients and their contractors. I try,
in company with others, to fulfill my civic responsibilities as an architect.
Progress is slow.

The role of parent seems to come more naturally. We are a sizeable
group at times and tend to be noisy. Music emanates from our midst,
also arguments. Very lively. My wife, an artist and teacher, has drawn
us into the local art world and opened our eyes to the world around us,

130 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

while enhancing our private world with beauty. We travel little and
badly; I suppose partly because we like it here, and partly because sooner
or later everyone comes by and it’s nice to have them visit. In this age
of mobility, it’s pleasantly offbeat to be static. Besides we live in the
city and everything is just around the corner, including the Yard.

WILLIAM LEE BROWN, JR.

   

BorN: April 16, 1918, Peoria, Ili. parents: William Lee Brown, Mildred Parker.
PREPARED AT: Western Military Academy, Upper Alton, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREE: M.D. (Univ. of Chicago), 1942.

MARRIED: Rowine Hayes.

DIED: July 10, 1952, Chicago, Ill.

William Lee Brown, Jr., was practising medicine in Chicago at the time
of his death. He was survived by his wife, Dr. Rowine Hayes Brown.

SALVATORE JOHN BRUNO

    

HOME AND Orrice sppress: 211 Main St., Medford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS i" COLLECE: 1935-1939, DELKEES: AB, 1959; Mop. (New York Medical Coll.),
1943,

MABKIED: Rose DiVenuti, Nov. 16, 1947. cuionen: Dawn, Nov, 16, 1949; Joseph,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

131

Oct. 31, 1950; Cail, June 21, 1954; Leila, Feb. 23, 1956; Philip, July 31, 1957;
Lance, Jan. 16, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Physician for City of Medford, since 1958; physician for Public
Schools, since 1961; member, Board of Health, City of Medford, since 1961;
physician for various industrial concerns; member of staff, Lawrence Memorial
Hospital, Malden Hospital, New England Sanitarium & Hospital, Cambridge
City Hospital, Otis General Hospital, Revere Memorial Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts and Medford Medical Societies; Medford Surgical

Society; American Geriatrics Society; American Society of Abdominal Sur-
geons (fellow).

Life after graduating from Harvard was continued with study during
my medical school years, which were followed by a series of internships
and residencies interrupted by the threat of call into the service and
finally by the actual call to serve in the Air Force from 1953 to 1955.

The most rewarding and happiest period of my life followed a wed-
ding I attended in 1947 at which I served as the groom and at which I
have worked so diligently that today I can boast of an even half dozen
offspring equally divided between male and female demons.

Because of the wonderful family into which I was born, I have always
felt that in the family and in its strength lies the backbone of any society.
Since raising my own family, I can add that I feel that no man can feel
completely fulfilled if he has not had the responsibility and opportunity
of raising children and attempting to make their lives as complete as he
is able, and to teach them the true values of living as he sees them.

I do not know the answers to political and religious problems and, to
be honest, I do not try to enter into them very deeply. I feel, for
example, that a man should be as religious as he honestly feels, but should
be sure that his children are well grounded in some religion in which they
can take comfort and guidance.

If joy in marriage, love of family and success in one’s chosen profession
can be used as yardsticks of happiness, then 1 must modestly confess
that Iam probably the happiest man in the world.

JOHN HOBART BRUSH

 

HOME Appress: 116 S, 50th Ave, Omaha 32. Nebr.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1429 Medical Arts Bldg. 17th and Dodge Streets, Quiaha, Nebr,
PuePARED at: Norfolk High School, Norfolk, Nebr,

132 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936. DEGREES: s.B. (Univ. of Nebraska), 1939; mop,
(ibid.), 1943.

MARRIED: Louise Mackey, June 12, 1943. cHitpreN: Jane, Feb. 17, 1945; John
Mackey, Jan. 24, 1948; William Edward, Jan. 2, 1950; Thomas Hamilton,
Oct. 4, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: President of staff, Immanuel Hospital, Omaha, Nebr., 1962; chair-
man of board, Omaha-Douglas County Division, American Cancer Society,
1962; director of clinics, Omaha Mid-West Clinical Society, Omaha, Nebr,
1960; member, Vestry of All Saints Episcopal Church, 1957-60; president,
University of Nebraska College of Medicine Alumni Association, 1958; chair-
man, Boy Scout Troop 17, Omaha, Nebr., 1958.

MEMBER OF: Phi Kappa Psi (undergraduate fraternity) ; Phi Rho Sigma (medical
fraternity); Rotary; American Proctologic Society; Western Railroad Sur.
geons Society; Omaha Mid-West Clinical Society; Fourth Auxiliary Surgical
Group; American College of Surgeons; American Board of Surgery (diplo-
mate) ; Omaha Club; Lake Manawa Yacht Club.

As the son of a small town and country doctor I had always wanted to
practice medicine, therefore, graduation day in March, 1943, at the
University of Nebraska College of Medicine was a happy day for me.
Since we were at war I had a short internship at Long Island College
Hospital in Brooklyn, New York. During my internship I managed to
convince a Nebraska girl to come to New York to join me. She did, and
we were married in the “Little Church Around the Corner” in New
York City on a beautiful day in June.

It wasn’t long before I became a member of the Fourth Aunxiliary
Surgical Group in a field hospital in Europe. After the war I finished
my training in general surgery at the University Hospital, which is
located in Omaha, Nebraska. I am now practising proctology and
general surgery in a partnership with Dr. J. B. Christensen here in
Omaha.

Our daughter, Jane, is a freshman this year at Wheaton College in
Norton, Massachusetts. We also have three nice boys. Mac is an ex-
cellent sailor, great debater, and an Eagle Scout at fifteen. Bill just enjoys
himself at thirteen. Tom is working hard in the first grade at seven.

At present I hold the distinguished position of rear commodore in our
local sailing club. We have approximately thirty Snipes— all very
active. We manage to race five or six months out of the year, on a very
small lake in lowa just across the Missouri River from Omaha. My wife
and I sail, Jane sails, and all the boys sail. The children attend summer
camps in northern Minnesota and Michigan, and we have joined them on
some interesting canoe and pack trips up into the Canadian wilds. My

family also enjoys skiing — Alta, Utah, is the favorite spot. I have
become financially involved in a local ski venture near Omaha — Crescent
Ski Hills (or Brush’s Folly?) by name. We encourage bitter cold
weather and manufacture artificial snow. Lots of people are having a
wonderful time, but the owners are making very little moncy.
Our entire family are Nebraskans for Goldwater. We would appre-
ciate your joining us in his support.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 133

RAYMOND CARPENTER BRYAN

  

A ERENT

 
 
 

aati sara enpann HTT

HOME ADDRESS: 67 Adams Point Rd., Barrington, R.1.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 433 Westminster St., Providence, R.I.

PREPARED AT: Hope Street High School, Providence, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1936, 1937-1940, 1945-1946. pecREE: a.8., 1939(46).

MARRIED: Janet Chace Williams, Jan. 18, 1943. cHiLpREN: Judith Carpenter, July
4, 1944; David Williams, Nov. 26, 1945; Dana Chace, April 28, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Business management consultant.

Only two things of any real significance happened to me between June,
1939, and June, 1946. Of course there was a war with deaths and misery
all over this world, but more important I found and married my wife.
That was event number one. I never could quite figure out why Janet
married me. For my part there was never any question. After all, her
father is a Harvard (711) man, too.

Between the time I met her and the wedding day, I was drafted
(January, 1941). Blind fate peaked a little and I was assigned to VL
Corps Headquarters in Providence, Rhode Island, just six blocks from my
home and four blocks from hers. That was the last my family saw of
me except for brief encounters until the end of the war.

From April, 1942, until January, 1943, I was at the OCS at Fort Sill,
Oklahoma, first as a candidate, then on staff and faculty. Then came the
big day. I was assigned to a station in California with an overseas
junket in prospect and ten days’ delay enroute in my orders. I went from
Oklahoma to San Francisco by way. of Rhode Island. I always do every-
thing the hard way! But I caught her in a patriotic mood, and when I
reached the Golden Gate I was a married man.

And here we are, twenty years and three children later, just as patriotic
as ever. Those years have been uneventful but happv with ups and downs
and joys and sorrows, Now, at a time when most of my classmates have
reached or are rapidly approaching the peaks of their careers, I find
myself starting all over, Just a year ago I started a new business. After
working for wages for someone else all of my adult hfe, am now for the
first time completely independent, The business is growing nicely, thank
you. It’s not quite solvent yet, but it soon will be. "

Janet and Judy (if she is home from Oberlin) and David (if he is home
from Colby) and Dana (if he can get excused from classes) and I will
look forward to secing you at the 25th,

aR RE EPICHTEITNEPTMENT Nees. ince

134 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

I see in reading this over that I only mentioned one of the significant

things that happened between June, 1939, and June, 1946. That other
was in June, 1946. That's when I finally got my degree, Eleven years
for an A.B., that must be something of a record!

JOSEPH JOHN BUCKLEY

REEH See at aie or ccoeesonta ggg

    

HOME appress: 55 Nancy Ave., Pittsfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Electric Co., 100 Plastics Ave., Pittsfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: §.B., magna cum laude, 1939; s.m., 1940.
Married: Virginia M. Broderick, May 29, 1943, cuitp: Kevin J., Dee. 22, 1952.
OCCUPATION: Engineer, presently doing reliability engineering for Ordnance De-

partment,
MEMBER OF: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers; Berkshire Hills

Country Club.
PUBLICATIONS: Technical articles in Electrical Engineering and the G.E. Review;
patent 2,506,340 for sequence charge control for industrial batteries.

After another year of residence in Cambridge to acquire an S.M. in
electrical engineering, I began a one-company career with the General
Electric Company. The ensuing twenty-three years have been the
typical migrant ones of a G.E. engineer.

The Advanced Course in Engineering was completed during the first
three years along with several test assignments in Lynn, Schenectady and
Pittsfield. Then came a twelve-year stint of design engineering for the
Rectifier Department in Lynn. After several months of subsidizing the
Boston and Albany Railroad, during the days of gas rationing, I married
a Pittsfield girl. Our family of three trekked “west” in 1955. After four
years of radio noise and telephone interference work in Schenectady, I
started my present assignment in Pittsfield monitoring the reliability of
the GE. portions of the Polaris missile.

Principal recreation is the digging of divots in the scenic fairways of
the Berkshire Hills Country Club, Our ten-year-old, Kevin, is a source
of much pleasure; thoroughly enjoys schoolwork, but it’s a little too early
to tell if he will become a Harvard Son.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 135

THEODORE BUDNY +

 

.ING ADDRESS: 121 Highland Rd., West Somerville 44, Mass.

ROBERT MANSON BUNKER
eae ‘ en we a , ~ al BEE eS

   

DRESS: Route 1, Box 527, Las Vegas, N. Mex.
apkESS: New Mexico Highlands University, Las Vegas, N. Mex.

136 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m. (Univ.
of New Mexico), 1954; pH-p. (ibid.), 1955,

MARRIED: Priscilla Fleitmann, Feb. 13, 1943, cutpren: Stephen Geoffrey, Jan. 20,
1944; Susan Emily, May 20, 1945; Paul Fleitmann, Nov. 25, 1947; Rachel
Philippa, Nov. 29, 1954; Anna Jacoba, April 14, 1956; Elizabeth Mercedes,
April 29, 1958; James Henry, April 14, 1961.

HARVARD SON: Stephen Geoffrey Bunker, ‘65.

occuPaTiON: U.S. Indian Service to 1951 (last title, social economist) ; teacher
and department head, English and philosophy, New Mexico Highlands Uni-
versity, since 195).

OFFICES HELD: Executive secretary, Bernalillo City-County Charter Committee,
1951-55.

pupLicaTions: Amanda Said the Grass was Green, 1948; Other Men’s Skies (nar-
ratives of Pueblo Indian self-government), 1956; Crow-Killer (account of a
Mountain Man), with Raymond W. Thorp, 1958; The First Look at Strangers

(account of a Cornell cross-cultural seminar), with John Adair, 1959.

Government service and teaching in this tri-cultural state have given
me wonderfully diverse perspectives and relationships, and so have seven
children as different as ours. If I have a “social conviction,” it is that
people are best met out of their usual context (or out of doors); poli-
tically, I am still a Democrat left of A. M. Schlesinger, Jr.; I was brought
up a Unitarian and am a Catholic.

I am astonished repeatedly at how much more most men do in fact
care about and respond to than they themselves readily recognize.
Granted, I've had extraordinary difficulty as well as great joy finding
words for what I have seen; along these lines I am proudest of Other

Men’s Skies and, obviously with fingers crossed, the novel on which I’m
still working.

 

HOME appress: 97 Hartmann Rd., Newton Center, Mass. 02159.
OFFICE AppreESS: United-Overton Corp., 19 Needham St., Newton Highlands, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, peGckErS: a.B., cum laude, 1939; M.B.A., 1941.

maRKIED: Doris Wittkin, June 26, 1941. crinnren; Gillian Anne, Nov, 28, 1943;
Robin Lois, Sept. 17, 1945; Robert Seymour, Jr., Oct. 19, 1947.

occupation: Retail: national discount chain — housewares — hardware.

orrices HELD: Director, 1952-58, secretary, 1953, vice-president, 1954, president,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 137

1955, National Association of House to House Installment Companies; director,
1949-64, treasurer, 1950, president, 1950-55, Middlesex Boxer Club; director,
1960-64, vice-president, 1960, president, 1961-63, American Boxer Club.
MEMBER OF: Pierian Sodality of 1808; Harvard Club of Boston; Newton Squash
and Tennis Club; Middlesex Boxer Club; American Boxer Club; Framing-
ham District Kennel Club; DeCordova Museum; Boston Museum of Fine Arts;
Institute of Contemporary Art; U.S. Eastern Amateur Ski Association.

I am writing this post graduation biographical sketch at the halfway
mark of an eight-thousand-mile transcontinental business trip. Strangely
enough, it seems a particularly appropriate place for me to reflect on the

ast twenty-five years.

My life has been a full one. My family and I have lived a fairly
typical suburban existence. From the tme my duty in the Navy was
over, we have been able to live and rear our children without any moves
from the home we built in 1947. As I look back, I feel grateful that we
were not one of the many wandering families which our society and
economy have made so common. At the same time we were able to avoid
too static an existence by virtue of personal and business interests which
exposed us to many outside influences.

My wife and I, shortly after our family had been complete, became
interested in the breeding and exhibiting of pure bred boxers. Our
breeding program has been successful, having produced several of our
own champions, and our activity in dog breeding organizations has taken
us to many parts of the country and introduced us to people from all
over the world and from all walks of life who happen to have this interest
in common. More important, it has given my wife and me and to some
extent our children a common interest outside of the normal family
affairs.

As we have matured, we have both become, as I described myself in
our Twentieth Reunion Book, middle-aged athletes. Although my wife
does not share my interest in squash, she is a most enthusiastic tennis
partner. She is a reluctant skier, but her indifference is more than offset
by the enthusiasm of my son and daughter.

As a defense against my many business trips, my wife decided to
become interested in silver work. She has become a talented silversmith,
a talent which unfortunately I do not share. I am a great critic of her
designs, but though exceedingly vocal, I have no discernible effect on
the finished product.

Our children have given us the normal heartaches and joys which are
allotted to most parents. Our two daughters are at college, which is
a financial burden you must experience to fully appreciate. | suppose we
should be grateful that we are still young enough for our college student

daughters to attempt to update in our social and intellectual attitudes.
Their success in this endeavor is still a questionable issue; it does liven
up our family life when we are all together.

My business which is in the relatively new and not yet settled field of
retail discounting has taken me all over the country. Since my last
report, I have become a principal of our firm and find my business,
political and social attitudes altered considerably as a result. I consider
myself an independent as far as politics are concerned, but I have always
favored the more liberal candidates, As I have grown older, I have

138 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

noticed that my thinking has become more conservative. I am not at all
happy with the political situation on the local level, and I admit to being
disillusioned with politics as it is frequently administered on the national
level.

The most disturbing aspect of these reflections concerns the future of
our society. We appear to be moving at a frantic pace with no particular
goal in mind, Too many of us, and I cannot exclude myself completely,
are overly preoccupied with the material facets of our existence. I see
too many people having obtained an enviable financial status at loose
ends without anv personal program except to enjoy the “good” life.
Unfortunately, this does not always have the most desirable aspects.

1 am not so presumptuous as to paint every member of society with
the same brush, but 1 must agree with others much more knowledgeable
than I, that there has been a general breaking down of the moral fibers
of our civilization. Moreover, it is evident at all levels and in most
pursuits. Perhaps the pressure of possible universal annihilation makes
this inevitable. However, I must repeat what I concluded for myself

five years ago, that | would like to see the pace of the world and my own
slow down. We need an opportunity to catch up with ourselves. There
is an attitude among some business and organization men that if you do
not press forward, you will not stand still, you will regress. I’m afraid
that if we press forward too fast, we may very well destroy ourselves in

a race whose goals are not yet clearly defined and for which we have
not adequately prepared ourselves.

MICHAEL ANTHONY BUONOMO

 

HOME appress: 84S. Border Rd., Medford, Mass.

orrice Abpkess; Massachusetts Hospital Service, Inc., 1833 Federal St., Boston,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rindge High School, Cambridge, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936. DrGKEE: Associate degree in Accounting (Bentley
Coll.) , 1949.

MARRIED: Louise J. Mollichella, March 27, 1943, critpren: Thomas Michael
(died 1949); Barbara Anne, July 22, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Systems analyst, Massachusetts Hospital Service, Inc,

OFFICES HELD; Vice-president, 1961-62, president, 1962-63, Plan Credit Union.

MEMBER OF: Toastmasters’ International (vice. ‘president) ; Society for the Con-
servation of the Middlesex Fells (president).

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 139

Family problems prevented my graduating from Harvard; however,
my association with Harvard has always been a source of pride with
me. | filled the gap in my Harvard education by taking evening courses
at Boston University and Northeastern. When the call to arms came it
covered the years 1942 through 1945. Discharged in January, 1946, I
attended Bentley College receiving an associate degree in accounting
in 1949.

The year 1946 also saw me joining the Massachusetts Hospital Service,
Inc., as a billing clerk —through the years rising to supervisor, chief
supervisor, assistant claims manager, and now have an interim position
as systems analyst, having been caught up in the wave of automation and
electronic data processing. Specifically, I am designing a system for
converting claim processing from manual to computer and integrating
this system with other areas already converted.

Politically, 1 am a registered Democrat, but keep an open mind and
most of the time vote bi-partisan. I ask little out of the life that is
remaining, but to make a comfortable home for my family, provide my
daughter with the best possible education, look forward to continued
family good health and a comfortable retirement.

JOHN BURBANK

   

Lats elecit enc aialta eat iii isc ela Ta,

HOME AbDpRESs: Country Club Road, Middletown, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 335 Cook Ave., Meriden, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pbECREES: a.B., 1939; m.v., 1943.

MARRIED: Helen Lee West, June 19, 1943. cHmpren: Jane Richardson, June 11,

1946; Priscilla Ruth, June 4, 1948; Douglas West, Aug. 24, 1951; John
Richardson, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Radiologist.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1957-58, secretary, 1958-59, vice-president, 1959-60,
president, 1960-61, Meriden Medical Society; secretary-treasurer, Section on
Radiology, Connecticut State Medical Society, 1957-58; director, Radiological
Society of Connecticut, Inc., 1960-62; director, 1960-63, sergeant at arms,
1963-64, Meriden Rotary Club; committee chairman, Westheld Cub Scouts,
1963-64; director, Westheld Volunteer Fire Department, 1957-60.

MEMBER OF: American College of Radiology; Radiological Society of North
America; American Medical Association; Connecticut: State, New Haven
County and Meriden Medical Societies; Meriden Rotary Club; Connecticut

Forest and Park Associations; Appalachian Mountain Club; Springtield
(Mass.) Ski Club.

140 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

PUBLICATIONS: Article, “Volvulus of the Cecum,” American Journal of Roent-
genology, 1950,

College seems very remote to me. I believe that Harvard has a better
program now than when I attended and certainly hope so. There should
be a compulsory curriculum for the first two years, at least, leading to a
basic knowledge of both sciences and humanities. The compulsory early
specialization in a field of concentration prevented our receiving an
adequate basic education at Harvard in our time.

Four years after college I graduated from Harvard Medical School and
after four more years of hospital training started practicing radiology,
My practice has been in Meriden and Wallingford, Connecticut, for the
past fifteen years, with time out to serve in the USAF Medical Service
during the Korean War. | find the private practice of my specialty
interesting and satisfying.

I have been blessed with a wonderful wife and children who see to it
that there is never a dull moment around the house. We all participate
in yearly summer camping trips which have enabled us to see a large
amount of the United States and Canada, every province except New-
foundland and a majority of the states. We have not visited the

Southeast.

I find it difficult to keep my hobbies from interfering with my work
as the skiing and tennis seasons overlap in the spring and in May and
June the lawn and vegetable garden interfere with both tennis and skiing.
Skiing and tennis are family sports with us and we all pursue these sports

with enthusiasm. I can still enjoy Alpine skiing in Tuckerman’s Ravine.
My elder son and I skied there last June. My wife and one son and I
hiked in the Rocky Mountains last summer and climbed over 12,000 feet

in altitude, Our family enjoys reading and we never have enough time
to do all we want to,

My civic activities include chairmanship of a Cub Scout Pack and
duties as sergeant at arms of the Meriden Rotary Club, to which my
classmate, Fran King, belongs.

WILLARD FRANCIS BURKE

 

HOME ADDKESS: 69 Seaview Ave., Marblehead, Mans,
osvice apuaess: 545 Technology Sq.. Cambridge, Mans.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 14]

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1936-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.
MARRIED: Isabel] Vail, Feb. 17, 1945. cHitpREN: Willard Francis, Jr., Oct. 13, 1946;

Maria isabel, Feb. 20, 1948; Susan Alicia, April 26, 1950; Peter James, Sept.
13, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Political affairs officer, United States Army Element, Joint Opera-
tions Group, newly assigned to open Boston office.

MEMBER: Harvard Club of Boston until 1949 when I left this area. Will probably
try to rejoin while I am posted here.

Since this is my first reply to any Class questionnaire, I will try to sum-
marize the tweny-five years briefly. After two years in the real estate
and insurance business in Salem, Massachusetts, Uncle Sam called me
for four years’ service, two years in peaceful Alaska as a medical ad-
ministrative officer, followed by one year in not-so-peaceful Europe in
the Airborne Infantry. At separation I was a captain. Two more years in
Salem left me unsatisfied and restless, so using the G.I. Bill and working |
on the side I returned to Harvard in the fall of 1948 in a vain attempt to
satisfy pre-med requirements and enter med school, my unsatisfied under-
graduate ambition. Just about the time | became convinced medicine was
not for me an opportunity for government service looked very appeal-
ing, and I moved to Washington in the spring of 1949.’ My assignments
in the next fourteen years, mostly abroad, provided a consistent pattern of
employment, variety of specific tasks, and sufficient changes of scene to
satisfy the most restless, Working in political affairs with both the De-
partments of State and Defense, I witnessed the rebirth of Germany and
Western Europe during the five years in Frankfurt. I shared the grow-
ing-pains of several developing countries in my four years in Karachi,
Pakistan, and two years in Ankara, Turkey. My experience in Ankara
working with the five nations of Central Treaty Organization was partic-
ularly gratifying.

Surprisingly enough, my family seems to have thrived on our migratory
existence but is having more difficulty adjusting to Stateside conditions
than they ever did to varying situations abroad. Coups, revolutions, mili-
tary governments, lack of basics so freely available in the States, and other
unusual events or circumstances were taken in stride with some minimum
comments. These, however, were more than offset by the opportunities
to swim in the Mediterranean or the Arabian Sea, to fish in virgin streams,
to see the Khyber Pass and the Acropolis, or to examine the Ottoman
Palaces, the Louvre, and the British Museum. One year’s experience in
the schools of Marblehead should get them back on course. My eldest
will be ready for college in 1964, and I hope that he makes Harvard.

In closing I should like to single out the importance of the individual
American representing our country abroad. More than any other single
factor, the personal friendships formed with foreigners are really what
links foreigners to the United States. Economic aid, military support,
diplomatic and other official relationships are important, too, but I be-
lieve that the success or failure of any of our programs is directly pro-
portional to the sincerity, tact, and interest of all our people abroad.
Wherever there is a broad range of personal friendships between Ameri-
cans and foreigners of any given country, I think we can predict that
the long-range outlook for relations between our countries will be favor-

142 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

able. Conversely, these friendships can also be made in the United States,
Our best ambassadors abroad are those foreigners who have been edu-
cated here in United States schools and universities. In this regard
Harvard is doing a good job and is probably the best known and respected
United States university in the world.

HOWARD A. BURKLAND +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 150 Greenway Terr., Forest Hills 75, N.Y.

ROBERT BURLINGHAM, JR.

  

 

|
|

HOME appress: 45 Frognal, London, N.W. 3, England.

OFFICE AppRESS: London County Council, Room 266(N), County Hall, London,
S.E. 1, England.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Antioch College, Yellow Springs, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937, pectin: BancH, (Columbia Univ.), 1942.

MARRIED: Rigmor S, Sorensen, Sept. 3, 1939. cHmoKnEN: Christine, Nov. 29, 19405
Randi, July 1, 1943; Lynn, Feb. 28, 1945; Stephen Hoe, Jan. 19, 1949; Michael
John, July 19, 1952.

occupation: Town planner, planning officer, Tf, L.C.C.

MEMBER OF: Signet Society; American Society of Planning Officials; National
Association of Housing & Redevelopment Officials, Kegional Planning As-
sociation of New York; Town & Country Planning Asseciation; Architec-
tural Association; Town Planning Institute; American Institute of Planners,
New York-Philadelphia Chapter.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 143

Since leaving Harvard College in 1937, I was educated as an architect
(with specialization in city planning) and graduated from Columbia
University in 1942 as a Bachelor of Arts (in Architecture). My subse-
quent jobs have taken me through most types of city planning practice,
viz., architectural work in the Philadelphia office of Stonorov and Kahn,
and planning work in Johnson City, Tennessee, for the Tennessee State
Planning Commission; in Trenton, New Jersey, for the New Jersey
State Department of Economic Development; in Passaic, New Jersey,
for the Passaic Valley Community Improvements Association; in New
York City for Ibec Housing and Technical Services Corporation, for
Morningside Heights, Inc., the Riverdale Community Planning Associa-
tion and later for the Housing and Home Finance Agency (Region I); in
London, England, for the London County Council since 1957. I also
taught city planning at Columbia for several years and was an officer, for
a time in the early ’50’s, of the New York-Philadelphia Chapter of the
American Institute of Planners, of which lam a member. |

In 1938 I married Mossik Sgrensen, a Norwegian girl, with whom I have
had five children: Christine, twenty-three, who is finishing her student-
ship toward the National Horticultural Diploma at Kew Gardens, Lon-
don; Randi, twenty-one, who is starting a job as a student-assistant at the
Hampstead Child Guidance and Therapy Course Nursery School in
London; Lynn, nineteen, who will be continuing with her education at
an American college in the autumn; Stephen Hoe, fifteen, and Michael
John, eleven, who are enrolled at Princeton High School.

RICHARD MELLIER BURNES

    

HOME appress: 1103 Grove St., Framingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: H.M. Nichols Co., Inc., 279 Worcester Rd., Framingham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: $.B,, 1939,

MARRIED: Ruth P, Carney, June 30, 1938. CHILDREN: James Nelson, June 15, 1939;
Richard Mellier, Jr.. March 13, 1941 Gm. Hilda Steer, June 22, 1903): Ken.
nett Farrar, Feb. 23, 1943; Daniel CG, June 24, 1946; Andrew P., June 18,
1950,

HARVARD sONS: James Nelson Burnes, ‘61; Richard Mellier Burnes, Jr, ‘63; Ken-
nett Farrar Burnes, ‘65.

OCCUPATION: Sales.

MEMBER OF; Wianno Yacht Club.

144 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Having been married after my junior year, our first of five sons was
born the day after my last exam, Having thus gotten off to a good start,
] went to work in a small arms plant in Worcester. When the war came
the Navy commissioned me an ordnance specialist (despite the fact I
knew little or nothing about guns) and sent me to Washington to rock
away the time. After a year and a half they decided I knew something
about ships (1 also knew little or nothing about ships), so they gave me
command of an LCI and off we went to the South Pacific where we
staved until the end of the war.

My main enjoyments in life have been family, sailing, hunting and
skiing, all of which I manage to find time for. I have been fortunate in
that two of my sons have now graduated from Harvard, the third is
there now; I hope the fourth will be admitted by the time this is
published, but the fifth still has some years to wait.

ROBERT MANTON BURNETT

      

HOME ADDRESS: The Newton House, Southboro, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

MaRRIED: Alice B. Nelthropp, March 2, 1954. cHiLpREN: Robert Manton, Jr., and
Carolyn L. (twins), March 19, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Director of alumni relations, St. Mark’s School.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Delphic Club, 1939; vice-president, Austro-American So-
ciety, 1953-56; chairman, International Air Transport Association, Central
Europe, 1953-56, New England School Science Advisory Council, 1959-63;
vice-president, St. Mark’s Alumni Association, 1962-64; vice-president and
director, Southbero Village Society, 1959-63.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club; National Science Teachers Association (Busi-
ness-Industry Section) ; Delhi Gym Khana Club; Calcutta Saturday Club.

One of the truly real pleasures of returning to “this part” of the world
after so many years has been in picking up the Harvard threads and
renewing associations with friends and colleagues, most of whom I
haven't seen since I left college. The Alummi Bulletin has followed me
like a faichful dog around the globe, and has been my best companion of
Harvard days. I’ve shared it—in the Far Fast and the Middle Fast, in
India, in Europe (and even in Bermuda where I'm almost ashamed to
admit I also “worked”) — with the Varsity Club news and football

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 145

ticket applications that, frustratingly, always seemed to find me each
fall wherever I was. Now that I’m back, I can make good use of these
formerly tenuous threads — and I do!

With the exception of a three-year stint as fighter director officer on
the carrier Cowpens during the war, I had been with Pan American Air-
ways since I joined them in Hong Kong right after graduation. After
leaving PanAm some seventeen years later, I returned to New England to
start a Ford Foundation program in education for the region. The Har-
vard magnet, indirectly, exerted too strong a pull, and | shortly found
myself running the development program of one of Harvard’s teaching
hospitals, the Peter Bent Brigham. This I enjoyed immensely. The whole
field of development work, fund-raising, planning, was a new and
exciting exploration, as well as a relatively new profession to me — for
in these days who can live by bread alone!

Since my return to New England, I have been living in Southboro,
Massachusetts. As a Virgin Islander, my wife, Alice B., has found the
winters a little difficult to take. She is, however, getting used to them,
along with the help of numerous layers of wool. Our twins, Bobby and
Carolyn, eight, are thriving on it.

This fall, a closer relationship even than Harvard’s re-established
itself. I find myself beginning the job of director of alumni relations for

St. Mark’s School in Southboro, a most pleasant combination of the type
of work and job I enjoy.

JOHN APPLETON BURNHAM, JR.

   

HOME ADDRESS: 344 Ocean Ave., Marblehead, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Helen Louise Adair, June 22, 1946. cHmLpREN: Paul A., Aug. 13, 1948;
Janice Adair, Oct, 29, 1951.
OCCUPATION: Retired.

MEMBER OF: Eastern Yacht Club; Naples Yacht Club (Florida); Massachusetts
Audubon Society; Naples Garden Club; Massachusetts Horticultural Society.

Following graduation I completed a two-year course in diesel engineer-
ing at the U.S. Diesel Engineering School in Boston and subsequently
worked for Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Company in East Hartford,
Connecticut, in the experimental engine test department during 1940-41,

146 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

and for the General Electric Company in the turbo-supercharger design
department in 1942. Enlisted in the Air Corps in the winter of 1942, and
after going through their communications and radar schools went over-
seas to Italy, where I was a radar shop repair chief with the 459th Bomb
Group-Heavy (B-2q's) in the 15th Air Force near Foggia.

Selected for reassignment to 8-29's for the Pacific ‘Theatre, I was re-
turning to the U.S. when V-E Day came, and was discharged in October,
1945, after a brief assignment under USAAF Headquarters at Wright
Field and a hot summer in Georgia.

After our marriage in 1946 my wife and I made our home in Marble-
head, and I went to work for the Gillette Safety Razor Company in the
process engineering department. During the following years our children
were born and advanced to school age.

In 1955 I retired from Gillette, and after a brief attempt to improve
schooling facilities in Marblehead through membership in a selectmen-
appointed-committee we moved to Naples, Florida, in 1957. There we
have built a home and can pursue our hobbies of boating, gardening, and
the study of nature and the “great outdoors” the greater part of the year.

lL. TUCKER BURR, Il

1 oA ren came. ne gteriviee et) ‘4

i

IE RTP “at er apm ite. se ete mremencetlpIRD oe At
af
*S maa)

 

? . %
2 se | te
fs. . statis cade Bk

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Walpole, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pecrEEs: a.p., 1939; p.v.m. (Cornell Univ.), 1951.

MARRIED: Estelle Eggins, April 17, 1945. cHttoren: Jan Tucker, Dec. 15, 1945;
Christopher, Nov. 7, 1947; Stephen Van Rensellaer, Sept. 16, 1949; Jennifer,
Jan. 28, 1952; Duncan Forbes, April 27, 1954,

OCCUPATION: Veterinarian, general practice.

OFFICES HELD: Order of the British Empire; chairman of board, Unitarian
Church of Walpole; member, Walpole School Board, 1956-65.

MEMBER OF: Order of the British Empire; AVMA; F. & A.M.

I woke this morning from a deep dream of peace to find the world
clamoring for my autobiography. Gee fellas, and I didn’t think you
cared! J didn’t think anyone cared. Now !'m all thumbs and toes to
record the most exciting life story since Lassie — and not too diffcrent.

Following Harvard J headed out for the big moncy and on September
4, 1939, found myself a private in the Cameron Highlanders of Ottawa.
In sygo, complete with kile and sporran, 1 left for Iecland where I

wt

—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 147

consumed by reckoning 153 cans of tinned bacon before going, in 1941,
to the relief of Britain (and the great relief of Iceland). 1 then traded
three stripes for three pips, and the next four years saw me go to Dieppe
(and come back pretty much alone), go to North Africa for the dysen-
tery season, Italy for the malaria season, France for the schuh-mine
season and Holland for the shooting season. This occupied me until
1945 when my luck ran out and | was invalided back to England and to
marriage with Miss Eggins of Bognor Regis. Home in late 1945 to listen
aghast to the horrors of war in Boston: “What, only five gallons of gas
a month?”

Discharged in 1946, I turned to work with animals as a happy alterna-
tive to people, and after six months of farm labor went on to the
Veterinary College at Cornell and spent the years 1947 to 1951 in noisy
desperation in Interlaken, New York.

Since then, in Massachusetts, Vermont and finally New Hampshire,
I have practiced general veterinary medicine, whose infinite variety age
does not wither nor custom stale. I practice alone, operate alone, collect
bills alone. I find that my compatibility is best that way and I am antic-
ipating continuing this life in the same fashion for the next twenty-
five years.

My activities are numerous, but most of the community, religious and
charitable work that I do enthralls me not. I do it for the reason you
do it — it’s hard to avoid. My domestic life is even harder to avoid but
that is from choice. Three boys are at Noble and Greenough, and a boy
and girl still here at school in Walpole. Not outstanding scholars, but
darn good eaters.

My travels: Canada, England and France in the last ten years. My
social, religious and political convictions: | have no opinions so strong
that they cannot be adapted by some persuasive classmate — who will
stand the drinks of course. My politics seem to be evolving into an
intransigent Republicanism whose political ideal is the late great Warren
Gamaliel Harding — “Back to Normalcy” — 54-39 or fight.” My activ-
ities: We garden, birdwatch, listen to classical music and ski together
but I sail alone.

Well that’s about it lads. Briefly, | have been fortunate in my choice
of parents, wife, children and career, and this is why I’m such a nice

happy chap. I only hope that life has been as much fun for you as it
has for us.

ae PUREE TIENTS EET Ta aa TnNE OI vor NTT RECALL CRIONERENTTasam niin mice snr" im

148 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

CHARLES LEE BURWELL

     

Bh bee ee ices,

HOME ADDRESS: 8 Waverly Rd., Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 16 E. 52d St., New York 22, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal High School, Alexandria, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., 1939.

marrieD: Natalie Benedict, Sept. 12, 1953. cHitpren: Carter Benedict, Nov. 18,
1955; Belinda Lee, Aug. 4, 1958.

occuPaTION: Chairman of the board, Thaibok Fabrics, Ltd.

OFFICES HELD: President, Burwell, Allen & Company, Inc., Shanghai and New York
City, 1947-57; director, America House, New York City, 1959-61; controller,
American Craftsmen’s Council, New York City, 1957-61: instructor, Adult
Education Program, Darien Conn., since 1962; vice-president, Elder Crafts-
men’s Shop, New York, since 1963; selectman, Town of Darien.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in Craft Horizons.

From Harvard, I set off to see the world. And in mid-19q1 I returned
to the States after a year studying in Europe and a year working in the
Far East. There followed a tour with Naval Intelligence during the late
unpleasantness and, in 1946, I returned to China. Iwo years later, our
firm, Burwell, Allen & Company, introduced to this country the original
Siamese silk, and from this grew Thaibok Fabrics, Ltd., of which I am
now chairman and in general charge of the complaint department.

Richly rewarding my prolonged bachelorhood, Natalie Benedict in
1953 consented to marry me. After some years of good times and varied
interests in Greenwich Village, we moved in 1956 to Noroton Bay, in
Darien, Connecticut. The tract is small, but the wild life is extensive. In
addition to Carter, aged eight, and Belinda, five, there are “Snitch”
Racoon, “Peanuts” Rabbit (a miniature), as well as the usual Siamese
cats, guinea pigs, turtle doves and several score of homing pigeons. Yet,
my wife complains only of the “botanical zoo,” as she calls it, since my
hobby is gardening, interspersed with sailing on Noroton Bay.

As for our political life: the obviously increasing gap between the
number of social responsibilities being generated by man and the number
as yet accepted by him has inclined us to the political left. My wife
does battle as membership secretary of the Democratic Women’s Club,
while I do weekly what I can as a Democratic member of the local
Board of Selectmen,

Weekly, too, in the fall and winter months, [ teach “Asian Studies”
and “Asian Religions” in the Adult Education Program. This past year

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 149

we have been helping to raise hopes and funds, in our Unitarian Society,
for a new Sunday School.

RWEN

  

HOME ADDRESS: 52 Cabot Rd., Danvers, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Louis Sack Co., Inc., 24 Lake St., Somerville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: June B. Hutchings, April 14, 1944, cHiLprEN: Gail Jean, Dec. 14, 1945;

Robert Vincent, Jr., July 7, 1949; Eric Donald, March 29, 1951; Kenneth Lee,
Sept. 80, 1952; Peter B., April 8, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Sales manager, Air Dynamic Division, Louis Sack Company, Inc.
MEMBER OF: U.S. Chess Federation.
PUBLICATIONS: Patents on heating devices.

Presently, a father of five (bewildered), an active chess, tennis and
trumpet player (Bernstein, please note), the twenty-fifth year finds me
a reasonably contented suburbanite.

Following graduation and three years as an unrecognized whiz-kid
in New England department stores, I entered, by invitation, the U.S.
Army. Passing, eventually, through OCS, part of Europe and two pro-
motions in rank, I returned in May, 1946, to civilian status.

During the next eighteen years, I became involved in heating work and
the development of devices in this field and continue work in this line. I
am sales manager of Air Dynamic Division which makes metal radiation
enclosures and other pressed metal parts to architectural requirement,
for use in high-rise apartments and office buildings.

Outside of work, life is family, social and hobby centered. With four
boys in school, a daughter in college, wife’s service and social calendar,
hobby-time suffers. (The U.S. Chess Federation does not publish my
name on its list of Grand-masters, nor has Al Hirt called up from New
Orleans, lately, for an appointment for trumpet lessons.) Work, family
and hobbies are, however, sources of interest which need only a little
more time to devote to each.

150 HARVARD CLASS OF 193 9

JAY HOWARD BUSHWAY +

CHEERY SES THe

. & a %,
oe

i f x ~ ,
.

: a

f° ™

ie \

 

' nN
3 3

HOME apprEss: 63 Washington Ave., Cambridge 40, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Butcher Polish Co., 183 Commercial St., Boston 48, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, DECREE: s.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Agnes Walton Young, Nov. 26, 1944. cHiLpReN: Charles Evan, April 24,
1950 (died Feb. 22, 1953); Catherine Walton, April 1, 1953; Susan Howlett,
Dec. 26, 1954.

occupation: Manufacturer of building maintenance materials; executive vice-
president and treasurer; head of the company.

OFFICES HELD: Teacher and business manager, St. Mark’s School, 1939-41; con-
scientious objector, Civilian Public Service and Prison, 1941-44; parole
worker, University Hospital, Ann Arbor, Michigan, 1944-46; proofreader-
indexer, Merrymount Press and free lance, 1946-48; Lincoln & Smith Press,
Boston, creative printer, 1948-51; president, hoard of trustees, The Bucking-
ham School, Cambridge, 1958-63; trustee, Museum of Contemporary Art,
Boston, 1961-63.

MEMBER OF: Badminton & Tennis Club, Boston; Cambridge Tennis Club; Center
Harbor Yacht Club.

One aspect of the way I live hasn’t changed a bit: I live from day to
day. Thus my apologies to Rush and Johnny for delivering this on the
deadline date.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 15!

Another, that has changed a lot, is my ability to recall. It’s almost
impossible to remember what I was doing or how I felt twenty-five years
ago, For this reason I won’t even try to be historical.

It seems to me that the most remarkable thing about our times is the
increase in the speed of the pace of our lives, There is, I think, an asymp-
totic hyperbola-like curve which starts from minus infinity on the x-axis
and moves to plus infinity on the y-axis. If the minus x-axis is thought
of as representing time from an eternity in the past to an eternity in the
future and the plus y-axis as the measure of increments in our knowledge
of, and our ability to cope with, ourselves: then, although we start very
slowly as we move up from minus infinity on the x-axis, our rate of
growth in knowledge and ability zooms up toward plus infinity on the
y-axis as we approach what appears to be the end of time.

This mathematical model seems to me to be useful both as a descrip-
tion of the history of life on earth and of the life of each individual
human being. As the world approaches its “end,” time is foreshortened,
and the cumulative effect of all that burgeoning knowledge and ability is
staggering to behold. Likewise, as individuals — in the manner of existen-
tialists — approach what poets call their moment of truth, they see fan-
tastic distances and accomplish much in a little time.

It has taken us two billion years to progress from the hydrogen atom
to the present but it may not take two hundred to go from here to almost
infinite understanding and wisdom. The giant steps we have already seen

in almost every branch of the physical sciences, technology, medicine,
psychology, etc., wall, I think, be considered minute compared to the
ones we will soon be seeing. Furthermore, they may be big enough to
explain our origin and hence to indicate our destiny. |

To be alive when so much is changing so rapidly is exciting and hope-
ful. Those who are trying to resist these changes are going to be defeated
in the ways they least suspect. For example, the traditional capitalist is
not likely to see that the end of capitalism will come from super abun-
dance and the resultant lack of human incentive for earning money or
making a profit. Nor is the traditional educationalist likely to see that
the “crisis” in education may be solved by rapidly increasing the rate
of learning rather than by building more schools. Nevertheless, I believe
these are not farfetched examples of the way things may progress in the
next twenty-five years,

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

152 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

FERGUS ANTHONY BUTLER
pore co sameeren eS

       
 

oe

ee

 

HOME ADDRESS: 100 Memorial Drive, Cambridge 42, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Plant Management & Maintenance Company, Cambridge, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Nancy Pyle, Dec. 14, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Management consulting business; vice-president, Plant Management &
Maintenance Company.

MEMBER OF: Salem Country Club; Blue Hill (Maine) Country Club.

After four summers at the Herald Tribune during college and han-
dling the paper routes around Harvard Square, went to work in New
York after graduation, planning to make a lifetime career with the
newspaper. Enjoyed managing college circulation in upstate New York.
Drafted March, 1941, and after a year in Brooklyn, went to Australia.
Was only enlisted man, I believe, to set foot during World War II in
Tasmania, the island state just south of Australia.

Assigned to CIC in Sydney for a while, then went to OCS in Brisbane
and up through the islands to the Philippines.

After the war decided New York was not the place to live and went
to Belfast, Maine, to help C. Owen Smith, 739, start the Maine Coast
Fisherman. Traveled about a thousand miles a week along the coast tak-
ing pictures and writing stories about lobstermen and boat builders and
trying to persuade small town drugstores to stock the paper.

In September, 1946, met Nancy Pyle Kendall who was the widow of
Vaughan Kendall, Princeton ’42, in Blue Hill, Maine, where she was
teaching high school. We got married in a December snowstorm, and

returned to Salem, Massachusetts, to go to work at Almy, Bigelow, and
Washburn, Incorporated, the family department store business. Worked
as merchandise manager and store manager until the business was sold in
1951. During this period went to Terre Haute, Indiana, for six months
to study the management control system of Mercantile Stores 2 14"
tionwide chain of department stores. This opened my eyes to the bound-
less energies which can be set in motion by the right management, philos-
ophy, yardsticks, ground rules, and controls in much the same manner
that a good constitution can release the energies of a nation. .
Partly as a result of this experience, went into management consulting
in 195%. Was with Work-Factor Company for twelve years covering

ere te ptt PLEO TOT TAD OOO Te IT I I ST FN _

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 153

New England and the West Coast and a year ago joined Plant Manage-

ment and Maintenance Company. Enjoy the work a great deal. Every

new project is different from the last one —a new challenge with unpre-

dictable problems and people. Every once in a while you run into an old-

fashioned rugged individualist to provide excitement. There’s the general
manager of a large paper company in northern New England who, a
few years ago, pulled a .38 revolver from his desk drawer, and in all
seriousness, threatened to shoot the union agent in the middle of a
meeting. He’s still running the place,

We enjoy living in Cambridge. Nancy is active in Republican politics
and is on our ward committee. We both play golf as much as possible
and always take our clubs with us in our travels. Most interesting and
beautiful golf course I’ve seen so far is at Edmunston, New Brunswick,
just across the Canadian border from Madawaska, Maine. It’s worth the
4so-mile drive from Boston any day. Have been taking vacations in Del-
ray Beach, Florida, with a few weekends in Maine during the summer.

Get up to the Square occasionally where there seem to be more girls
than boys these days. (The oldtimers in J. Press say, “too many.”) During
warm weather they go barefoot in increasing numbers. Of course, a
lot of the boys have beards, and you can’t help wondering sometimes if
things are really all right — even considering the high marks the students
are getting these days and low drop-out rate.

I’m a staunch Republican, mainly because I think the Republicans are
much better financial managers. It seems to me that too many Demo-
crats regard government as a place to create jobs for themselves and
hundreds of thousands of their buddies, I am more fearful of the sheer
size and cost of big government than anything else on the horizon. I fear
individual initiative and free private enterprise may someday sink under
the sheer weight of big government.

I feel I owe a lot to Harvard, and I am looking forward to seeing old
(and new) friends at our Twenty-fifth.

JONATHAN GLOVER BUTLER

   

HOME ADDRESS: 1 Lake Shore Ave., Beverly, Mass.

OFFICE ADpness: Ara’s Prep, Inc., 53-57 Central St., Wellesley, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., 1939; M.B.A., 1943.

154 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

marriep: Hope Osborne, Sept. 19, 1942 (died Dec. 16, 1957); Sylvia W. Moore,
July 28, 196]. cuicpreN: Nathaniel Glover, Aug. 6, 1946; Colin Robson, Dec.
1, 1949; Stephen Dexter, Jan. 6, 1953; David Osborne, Nov. 19, 1955; Peter
Crawford Moore, June 30, 1948 (stepson) ; Corby Woolston Moore, June 15,
1951 (stepson).

occupation: Retail merchant; president and principal of Ara’s Prep, Inc., Ara’s
For Young Men, a high grade specialty shop selling the best of clothing and
furnishings for young men, ages eight to twenty-five.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, North Shore Committee for Marshall Plan, 1948; di-
rector, Budget Committee chairman, Salem Community Fund, 1949-55; presi-
dent, Cove-Montserrat P.T.A., Beverly, 1957,

If 1 had met a fortune teller in June, 1939, and she had told me what
these past twenty-five years would hold for me I would have thought
her far-fetched indeed. In the world at large, the fury and cataclysm
of World War Il—all but continuous war on smaller scales and differ-
ing stages ever since— the splitting of the Atom and all the manifold
consequences thereof —the world-wide population explosion — the re-
construction and renaissance of Western Europe—the end of colo-
nialism— the emergence of Communist China, democratic India and all
the other new undeveloped states with their “revolution of rising expecta-
tions” —the exploration of space—the explosions of new products,
techniques, businesses.

At graduation, my immediate aim was a summer’s tour of Europe and
return to a job in a New York buying office for a year. Then a year in
a Boston department store, finally the Business School and my family’s
department stores in Salem, Beverly and Danvers; someday to succeed
my father as treasurer. How settled it all seemed, even with Hitler’s
mad preparations in the back of my young mind. I expected a war, but
tried to put it out of mind. ~

1939 was a wonderful summer in England, Ireland, France, Belgium,

Germany, Italy. New York that winter was hard work and fun —- away

on my own. 1940 saw me back home, commuting to Boston, a junior

executive in a Boston department store. 1941 saw me at the Business

School and in love with Hope Osborne whom I married next year. 1942

saw me an ensign, U.S. Navy Reserve. 1943 saw me out of the Business

School and into the Navy. Hope and I made a mad series of sixteen

“abodes” in nine months, capped by a glorious four in San Francisco,

1944-45 saw me in Fspiritu Santo, the Admiralties, New Guinea, the

Philippines, as an officer in a P.T. boat base. 1946 saw Hope and me re-

united in Washington (cross word puzzle section of BuOrd), Brookline,

alem.

Back to the store until September, 1948, when I was flattened by bulbar
and paralytic polio. Two and a half years of exercise and struggle led
to complete recovery (I still exercise five days a week). Polio was
coupled with a bitter inter-family quarrel and law suit over the store.
Generation against generation, family against family, fathers against sons.
We sold,

From 1951 to 1962, 1 worked for a Boston specialty store buying for
the men’s and boys’ departments. Covering the markets four buyers
cover in the bigger stores, making six Furopean buying trips. Gerting
almost unique experience and know-how,

1957 saw Hope stricken with cancer, [returned home from a European

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1§5§

buying trip to her hospital bed. After a long losing struggle she gallantly
died, her fight a victory of the human spirit, and | came home to tell
our sons we would celebrate Christmas next week alone. They bore
their sorrow manfully, even though Stephen had to endure a nearly
blinding siege of shingles. Thus ended a perfect marriage.

I now consumed myself with work and a search for a business ]
could make my own, having turned down a chance to move to New
York to one of the most famous stores in the world. 1961 saw me find
both a business I could make my own and Sylvia who would make
another perfect marriage.

After the joy of 1961, 1962 was filled with work, work, work organizing
and launching the new shop in Wellesley (to be lead-off subject of a
new fashion section in the boys’ industry trade magazine on its first
birthday), the joys and work of joining two families together and the
long, arduous, unrelenting, shepherding of David (aged six) through 366
days of recovery from burns, sixty-five per cent of his body. “. . . for
gold is tried in the fire, and acceptable men in the furnace of adversity.”

Here we pause after twenty-five years to survey the family, a perfect
marriage, a fine business now established, two sons at Exeter, the others
doing well, everyone healthy. I can say I take great pride in all my boys.
Life looks good.

I do not expect the next twenty-five years to be as action-packed as the
last, but as Mr. Justice Holmes said “. . . certainty is generally illusion

and repose is not the destiny of man.” I plan to be busy as husband,
parent, store owner.

PIERCE BUTLER, II +

eo

   

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 737 Blue Gentian Rd., St. Paul, Minn.

156 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

 

CLAUDIUS JAMES BYRNE, JR.

3

    

HOME ADDRESS: 44 Central Ave., Humarock, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, 1940-1941. pecREE: a.B., 1939(42).

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Securities.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Tournament Committee, 1961-62, Francis Ouimet Caddie
Scholarship Fund, 1962-63, Cohasset Golf Club; finance chairman, since 1962,
treasurer, since 1962, Republican Town Committee, Scituate, Massachusetts.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Old Colony Harvard Club (Schools &
Scholarships Committee) .

After one semester at Harvard Law School in 1941, went into the U.S.
Coast Guard Reserve, emerging as a lieutenant, senior grade, in 1946.
Then followed twelve years in the food brokerage business. Got fed up
with that and have since become involved in the securities business.

It has been-a great source of enjoyment to help young men in their
quest for higher education. In this area I have served as a member of the
Schools and Scholarships Committee of the Old Colony Harvard Club.
Recruiting and interviewing boys of some seventeen years of age for
Harvard has been extremely rewarding. Brad Stephens, who has given
us all many thrills on the gridiron in the past three years, was one of my
favorite interviewees.

Also I have served as chairman of the Francis Ouimet Caddie Scholar-
ship Fund for the Cohasset Golf Club during the past few years. Thus,
I was helpful in bringing it about that a number of deserving boys were
able to obtain a college education.

Maybe I should have been a teacher!

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 157

ARTHUR GOODRICH CABLE, JR.

         

“inc Hiak Bile acs Sa mi ESTE a nde ae RN

HOME apprREss: 210 E. 30th St., New York 16, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Institute of International Education, 800 Second Ave., New York,
N .

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939.

MARRIED: Mary Winthrop Pratt, May 25, 1949. cuitp: Cassandra Southwick, Feb.
27, 1956.

occupation: Head of African Students Department, Institute of International
Education. .

MEMBER OF: A.D. Club; Harbour Club, Kyrenia, Cyprus; The Royal Bangkok
Sports Club, Thailand; Harvard Club of New York; Press Club, Salisbury,
Southern Rhodesia.

After five years in the Air Force (1940-45) 1 worked in Chicago for
a brokerage firm until November, 1948, when I went to Paris for what
I thought was to be a very short visit. I stayed until June of ’49 and
returned with a wife and a desire to work for the government. While
making my applications and undergoing a long security check, I attended
New York Law School (1950-51) until I was called to Washington and
started working for CIA.

I transferred to USIS in 1955 and on September 1st, 1963, resigned
from the government to come to work at the Institute of International
Education, While working for the government we spent two years in
Istanbul, four years in Germany, three years in Southern Rhodesia, and
six months in Bangkok. My wife has written short stories and articles
for The New Yorker and Horizon, and she is now working as an editor
at the latter. My three years in Africa showed me that was the area I
wanted to work in. While it is nice to be back in the United States, I
expect to return to Africa in the near future for additional assignments.

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

<8 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

JAMES LEON CAHN +

    
 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 28 Van Vorst St., Utica, N.Y.

FULTON IRVING CAHNERS

TR 8 FRET OE

 

Na ort ane te A dl eat tinct a, tac at

fp oF pyr.,

hag h J

2 | 2 ey

Brew ee bic

HOME ADDRESS: Dairy Road, Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Publishing Co., 221 Columbus Ave., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: S.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Miriam Goldfarb, June, 1941 (divorced 1957). CHILDREN: John Douglas,
July 2, 1943; Laura Elizabeth, Jan. 23, 1949.

occupaTion: President, Boston Publishing Company. 42

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, National Homes Equipment Company, 1940— ce
Union Underwear Company, 1954-56; president, Fulton Industries, Inc. sm
1956, Boston Publishing Company, Inc., since 1961.

A few days ago, as I was leaving for the airport, my secretary handed
me some last minute mail. Included in it were the questionnaires COVE
ing our 25th Anniversary Report. So I tucked them in my brief case a :
brought them along here to California where 1 am spending a few day
with my son, John, a senior at Stanford. rs

At the moment, I am back in my hotel room after a few pleasant how ,
walking around the beautiful Stanford campus. Its palm-lined vista
far cry from Harvard Yard. But it did bring on a little nostalgia, any

can’t help but think back to my own years in Cambridge and to 1

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 159

exciting and happy events in my life during the past twenty-five years.

There is something significant perhaps, although Pm not sure what it
is, in the fact that John’s graduation from Stanford this coming June
coincides with my twenty-fifth year out of Harvard. ;

Perhaps the next quarter century will be one of peace for our children
_—and they will not have to endure the suffering and sorrow of a global
conflict such as we went through,

My war years were spent in the U.S. Naval Reserve, four years of
sea duty as commanding officer of the USS Marnell. Shortly after the
war ended I moved my family from Maine to New York where I be-
came associated with the Union Underwear Company. After a decade,
during which our company emerged as the largest manufacturer of men’s
underwear in the country, we sold out to a public company. The change
that I made from manufacturing to the publishing business was not as
startling as it might seem. My company publishes industrial trade maga-
zines which service manufacturers and buyers in various industries. An-
other feature which appeals to me very much is that it is headquartered
in Boston not too far from the Walnut Hill School where my daughter,
Laura, aged fourteen, is now in her second year.

Although I don’t have as much free time as I would like, 1 do manage
to get in some sailing along the coast of Maine each year, play golf in-
frequently, tennis a little more often and look forward to paddle tennis
on winter weekends.

As I re-read this, it sounds as if my life so far has been a rather com-
placent one inside a deep big rut. Actually, however, it has been more
rough than rutted, more exciting than | wanted and happier than I de-
served.

ROBERT HENRY CALDON

 

HOME AppRESs: 1739 Commonwealth Ave., Brighton 35, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: 1741 Commonwealth Ave., Brighton 35, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Publie Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1935-1938, 1940-1941, prerke: b.D8. (Univ, of Buffalo), 1943,
MARRIED: Lilian Grace, 1946, cumpren: Nancy Joan, June 26, 1947; Charles

Bradford and Joan Marie (twins), May 11, 1951,
Occup : “nitist, .
MEMBER. OF Renetidan Dental Society; Massachusetts Dental Society; Masonic

160 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

bodies: Konohassett Blue Lodge, Council of Royal and Select Masters, Pent-
alpha Royal Arch Chapter, Knights Templar, Aleppo Shrine.
pusLicaTions: “Techniques in Prosthetics”; “Uses of Acrylics in Dentistry.”

The vicissitudes of raising a family seem to increase as we get older.
The accent on scholasticism is so much heavier than in our day. Are we
overstressing it purely from a materialistic point of view or are we really
deeply motivated and concerned for our children’s mental development?

The desire for study has directly increased with each year. My chief
complaint is that a successful dental practice curtails time for concentra-
tion on dental and medical literature as well as reviewing and all too
often learning for the first time what junior and senior high schools’
curricula offer to students today.

My personal fetish is to go over all the home studies of my children
in as much detail as possible. At the present time, the scope encompasses
fifth-year French, first-year French, intermediate algebra, American and
European history, first- and third-year Latin, etc.

We find a stimulating atmosphere developing and a mental curiosity
that was lacking in my own days as a student. In short, I think too much
accent is ever present on social prestige and material possessions with little
or no rapport evolving between children and parents. Mutual study is
certainly one effective manner to maintain some tangible bond in the

family.

JAMES LEONIDAS CALDWELL

      

HOME appress: 1114 Lula Lake Rd., Lookout Mountain, Tenn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 222 Watauga Lane, Lookout Mountain, Tenn.

PREPARED AT: Harvard School, Los Angeles, Calif,
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pECREES: A.B., 1939; m.p. (Johns Hopkins Univ.),
1943.

MARRIED; Marjorie Henry, 1939. cuiLpren: Kathleen Pound, July 5, 1941; Mar-
jorie Henry, March 12, 1943; Margaret Hardwick, Oct. 11, 1953; James
Leonidas, Jr., Aug. 24, 1958.

OccUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in surgery, University of Michigan, 1950, 1951; president
and chairman of board, J.B. Pound Hotel Company, Savannah, Ga., 1955-59,
Mountain City Land Company, 1957-64, Signal Mountain Development Com:
pany, 1958-64, Chattanooga, Tenn.; director, Caldwell Foundation, 1959-64,
Duro Plumbing & Supply Company, 1946-51, and Saginaw Bay Industries,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 161

1949-52, Bay City, Mich., General Appliance Corporation, 1952-61, and
Tennessee Stove Works, 1954-64, Chattanooga.

MEMBER OF: Lookout Mountain Presbyterian Church; American Medical Asso-
ciation; Lookout Mountain Golf Club; Chattanooga Golf and Country Club;
Mountain City Club, Chattanooga.

To ask a Harvard graduate to be concise about anything is ridiculous.
To ask him to be concise about twenty-five years of love and labor, joy
and turmoil is contrary to human nature.

My conciseness or lack of it stems from the sonorous proclamations of
my freshman tutor, the long, long, long decline of the Roman Empire
and the loquacious disillusionment of Professor Lake’s History of the
New Testament. The most constructive lesson came from Professor
Hisaw’s opening remark in freshman biology while twirling his gold
charm: “Beware, the Phi Beta Kappa Key is the first step to sterility.”
Maybe it was only a warning not to stay at Harvard too long.

Harvard served well and | hope still does her stern purpose of giving
a little maturity to potential juvenile delinquents. Her greatest contribu-
tion is the encouragement of individual thought. Rumination is not my
favorite pastime nor are school ties and reunions but you leave little
choice.

Career-wise medicine has always been my love. The first dim realiza-
tion that all life has a magical orientation has been a continuing stimulus,
Treatment of illness is always gratifying and the study of human nature
from our cellular dysfunctions to our present mass hypnosis is an
unendingly varied field.

Circumstances and personal interests have necessitated a second career
in business which has been rewarding in many ways, but is obviously
detrimental to the practice of medicine. My good intentions to concen-
trate solely on medicine never materialize — maybe next year.

My greatest claim to glory and my only defense on Judgment Day is
the love of my family. This is the driving force in my life and my
greatest satisfaction. A loving, intelligent wife and four children who,
fortunately, have their mother’s characteristics make life worth living.

Two years in India, Burma and China was a soul searching experience
— general starvation, utter human misery, attenuation and destruction of
morals from grim reality, 100,000 deaths in three months from cholera,
cases of bubonic and pneumonic plague, smallpox, malaria, beri-beri,
tuberculosis, twenty-five pound ovarian cysts — this was Canton, China,
immediately postwar.. It made Burma seem like a picnic.

The second re-evaluation of purpose and intent followed a near fatal
automobile accident and six painful months of traction, wheelchairs and
braces. The perspective from a hospital bed with the constant threat of
amputation leads to a great deal of humility and understanding of other
people’s problems.

_ At present our family life is full, not exactly serene but varied and
interesting. We enjoy traveling, home and abroad, an active social life,

selected civic enterprises, golf and hunting. Our accomplishments though
inadequate give sufficient gratification.

Although the Lord at times can be trying we are truly blessed with
His favor.

162 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

WILLIAM LEWIS CALFEE

“Oy

   

HOME ADDRESS: 21200 Claythorne Rd., Shaker Heights 22, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1956 Union Commerce Bldg., Cleveland 14, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn,

YEAHS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; LuB., (Yale Uniy.), 1946.

marrieb: Eleanor Elizabeth Bliss, Dee. 6, 1941. CHILDREN: William Rushton, Jan.
9, 1947; Bruce K., March 6, 1950; Cynthia Bliss, Dec. 4, 1954,

OccUPATION! Partner, law firm of Baker, Hostetler & Patterson.

OFFICES HELD: President, Greater Cleveland Combined Health Fund; secretary,

Family Service Association, Cleveland Chapter, Arthritis & Rheumatism
Foundation.

MEMBER OF: Union Club; Mayfield Country Club; Tavern Club.

My twenty-five years since graduation can be separated into two
phases; five were devoted to Uncle Sam and twenty to the practice of
law.

In January, 1941, I left Yale Law School and went to the War Depart-
ment which at that time was still able to squeeze itself into the old
Munitions Building on Constitution Avenue, before moving across the
Potomac River to the Pentagon Building.

1 was transferred to London in 1943, where I spent the balance of my
Army life working with the British in various phases of intelligence
work. I was released from the service in time to make the 1945 fall
session of Yale Law School. Finishing at Yale in the fall of 1946 I
returned to Cleveland, Ohio, and started with the law firm of Baker,
Hostetler & Patterson. In the early years [ found myself trying personal
injury cases. In recent years I have been more and more specializing in
labor law.

For four years, the last two as president, I have been working with
the Greater Cleveland Combined Health Fund, trying to consolidate in
the Cleveland area the fund-raising activities of all of the independent
health drives. This work comes naturally as I have been active in the

Cleveland United Appeal drives, being captain of the Attorney Team
for the last five years.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 163

THOMAS HENRY CALHOUN, JR.

_

   

% AE RE MELE

|
|
|

HOME ADDRESS: 14 Nolen Lane, Darien, Conn,

oFFice AppRESS: N.W, Ayer & Son, Inc., Rockefeller Center, New York 20, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter. N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEGREE: a.p., 1939.

marRIED: Jean Bunch, Feb. 23, 1943. cHtLpann: Thomas Henry, 3d, July 13, 1946;
Robert Lisle, Oct. 20, 1948; Lisa Ireland, May 29, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Advertising; vice-president in charge of Television and Radio Pro-
gramming, N.W. Ayer & Son, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, King School, Stamford, Conn., since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Academy of Television Arts and Sciences; Harvard Club of New
York.

Some twenty-six years ago I found myself a junior usher at Commence-
ment time assigned, among other things, to the activities of the Twenty-
fifth Reunion Class, It was a first exposure to this geriatric tribal rite
and it proved to be an illuminating experience. As I observed these
gentlemen (and their ladies) of the Twenty-fifth through the merciless
eye of youth, it occurred to me that nowhere had I seen a more spavined,
flyblown collection of ancients outside of a dimly remembered visit to
a Civil War veterans encampment. It worried me that the general
atmosphere of the gathering reflected more the spirit of the first half of
the third inning than the seventh inning stretch. I would have been
reassured if they had all suddenly struck up “Nearer My God To Thee.”
What bothered me most was their determined reiteration to one another
that time had wrought no physical changes when obviously it was
fortunate that there were several doctors in attendance. I later — much
later — came to recognize and to accept with mellow gratitude this
particular aberration for what it was: the charitable myopia of advanc-
ing age.

The star of the show that year was a gentleman of considerable
attainments in (if you will pardon the expression) the profession of
advertising. Witty, urbane, and handsome (in an elderly way), he had
the crowd with him, I concluded that he had reached a proper earthly
pinnacle upon which to perch briefly before the long leap into the
unknown. Quite as an anticlimax, I came to know him in later years
when he had gone a considerable distance down the other side of the
hill. The consequent necessity to revise this particular plot brought home

164 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

the point that there are usually more than twenty-five laps around the
track and performance in the stretch will get you no odds on the finish.

With these reminders as a starting point of reference I cautiously
issue the following personal notes: (1) 1 am—as of this writing — alive;
(2) [have not aged a bit; (3) my professional résumé is up to date. To
fill out the picture a little —I am bivouacked in the town of Darien,
Connecticut, a sometimes untidy bedroom extension of Madison Avenue
with wees. I have been married for twenty-one years to the same wife, a
lady whose distrust of Social Security (and possibly her husband) is so
fundamental that she keeps herself occupied gainfully as a decorator and
pastel portraitist, Our children attend school here and in nearby Stam-
ford. Most of our so-called disposable income goes to the support of a
wealthy ruling class of local shopkeepers, Fortunately, the nature of our
work permits us to get to the theatre frequently. We also enjoy
football weekends (when Harvard gave up the game we adopted Penn
State), breakfast at The Brasserie, and the residual benefits of planned
parenthood.

So much for the census aspects of this report. To go back and trace
the turns in the road that led to here would be dull Baedeker indeed.
It would be equally profitless to project a dead reckoning plot beyond
the immediate night ahead. There are always gale winds lurking. If at
first I seemed captious in recalling the uncompromising eye of youth,
let me soften the impression with this thought— Christopher La Farge
wrote it — “I knew more then than I shall, haply, ever know again.”

WENDELL NYMAN CALKINS

 

HOME appress: 507 W. Main St., Crawfordsville, Ind.
OFFICE ADDRESS: History Dept., Wabash College, Crawfordsville, Ind.
PREPARED AT: Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn.
TEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, prcRees: 8.B., cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1947; PH.D.
52.
marriep: June McNeil, Oct. 26, 1945. cuiLonen: Peter Hollis, Sept. 9, 1946;
Emily Jane, Feb. 12, 1949; Andrew McNeil and David Ian (twins), Dec. 20,

1955,

occupation: Education; professor ef history and chairman of department, Wabash
College.

orrices HeLD: Director, Indiana Academy of Social Sciences, 1957-59: member,
State Advisory Board, Indiana Civil Rights Commission, since 1962; vestry-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 165

man, St. John’s Episcopal Church, Crawfordsville, Ind., since 1962; director
of music, St. John’s Church, since 1958.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association; Conference on British Studies,
Association for Asian Studies; Harvard Varsity Club.

pusLicaTions: “Collingwood’s Idea of History,” Proceedings of the Indiana
Academy of the Social Sciences, 1958; “A Victorian Free Trade Lobby,”
Economic History Review, August, 1960; various book reviews.

Upon graduation I went to work as a reporter for the Brookline
Citizen but after several months of penury had an opportunity to move
to the First National Bank of Boston as a “floater” or executive trainee,
where I enjoyed the companionship of Ned Roberts and Tim Russell as
fellow floaters. It was Tim who persuaded me to volunteer for the
Navy’s V-7 program in August of r9qo. 1 received a commission as
ensign in May, 1941, and served on active duty in both Atlantic and
Pacific theaters, chiefly as a naval gunfire liaison officer unul October,
1945, when I was released to inactive duty as a lieutenant commander.
(Incidentally, I have kept up my association with the Naval Reserve,
have completed more than twenty years of satisfactory service and hold
the rank of captain.)

Instead of returning to banking in 1945, I decided that an academic
career Was more to my taste. Since the G.I. Bill made graduate study
feasible, I returned to Harvard from 1946 to 1950 and received the
Ph.D. degree in history in 1952. I was a teaching fellow at Harvard
during this period; but my first full-time job was at the University of
Buffalo, where I was first instructor and then assistant professor of history
from 1950 to 1955. I was then awarded a Carnegie Internship in General
Education and spent a year at the University of Chicago as a visiting
assistant professor. While there I received an offer to come to Wabash
College as associate professor and chairman of the History Department
(1956), and here I have been ever since. I was promoted to professor in
1958 and spent the academic year 1960-61 as a visiting professor at
Indiana University.

The visit at Indiana University brings me to the subject of my most
recent academic interest. Although my research field in graduate school
was Victorian England, I have during the last several years switched my
attention primarily to the Far East; and the main purpose of my vear at
Indiana University (in addition to teaching a course in English Consti-
tutional History) was to study Chinese and Japanese history, Chinese
literature and the Chinese language. This study was in part supported
by the Ford Foundation, which then helped me to continue the pursuit
of the Chinese language at Michigan State University during the summer

of 1962. This past summer I spent in Japan, Taiwan, and Hong kong
under the joint auspices of the Fulbright program, the Ford Foundation
and Wabash College. (Earlier academic travels, while we are on the
subject, included a summer of research in England in 1954 and direction
of a student study tour to England during the summer of 1960. In the
latter instance I was able to take my entire family with me; the twins
got very tired of looking at “churches,” but T think they got a lot out
of it nonetheless. )

My chief hobby now, as when in college, is singing. In addition to
directing the local Fpiscopal choir, I have organized the Town and Gown

166 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Madrigal Singers, who meet once a week and give several programs
during the year. I am fond of chess but don’t have time to play very
often; however, I did learn to play Chinese chess this summer and highly
recommend it as an interesting variation of our own game. Judy and |
square dance once a month.

My ideas are not strikingly original. In politics, like most professors,
I am a liberal with strong Democratic proclivities, alchough I don’t
always vote the straight ticket.

HUGHES CAL

 

  
 

acai ih RA Lat OB EP EE scat hd

:
8
i
i
'
‘
bE
r
:

 

HOME ADDRESS: 315 Montford Ave., Mill Valley, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Camlind Research Associates, 750 Ellis St., San Francisco 9, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pecrEEs: $.B., 1939; m.B.a., 1941.

MARRIED: Volinda Lewis, April 4, 1942. cHttoren: Lewis Hughes, Sept. 5, 1943;
Phoebe Carey, Oct. 13, 1944; Alexander Hughes, Sept. 28, 1948; Eleanor
Carey, June 17, 1950.

occupation: General manager, Camlind Research Associates; research, develop-
ment, patenting and licensing of construction materials, concrete drilling and
concrete anchoring devices. Treasurer and coordinator of research team and
sales outlets.

OFFICES HELD: Service, USN, including three years officer-in-charge, Naval Air
Trafic Office. Pearl Harbor, 1942-45; sales manager, H.L. Grant Company,

Washington, D.C., 1946-48; general manager, J.B. Salterini, Inc., New York
City, 1948-50; director, Fleet Air Logistics, Western Sea Frontier, San Fran-
cisco, 1950-53; general manager, Camlind Research Associates, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Clubs of Washington, D.C., and San Fran-
cisco; Experiment in International Living; local Improvement Club; Tennis
Club; Ross Valley Players; Mill Valley Light Opera Company (co-founder
and member, board of directors); Volunteer Fire Department; Homestead
Valley Band and Homestead Highland Pipes (founder and director); Pre-
stressed Concrete Institute; Pregnezer Society; Scouts; Litthe League; Naval

Reserve (commanding officer).

pusticaTions: U.S. Patent No. 3,082,578, Expansible Anchor Bolt and Method of
Anchoring Same, plus six forcign patents on same; U.S. Patent No. 3,085,037,
Building Material, asphalt impregnated metal lath,

From 1939 to June, 1941, John Rumsey, Lloyd Booth, Denny Schweppe
and I spent two happy years at Soldiers Field, and with our M.B.A.’s in
our hot hands, charged off in four directions. At that point, Frannie King
set the course of my life by requesting a billet for me in Washington,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 167

D.C., on the Army-Navy Munitions Board. While there 1 met and
married Volinda Lewis (Vassar ’39). We palled around with a wonder-
ful group of Ivy Leaguers and our year in Washington was somewhat a
continuation of the six years in Cambridge. From there, three months
teaching Naval ROTC at Cornell (those poor characters haven’t re-
covered yet! I was only one day at best ahead of the class in reading the
text, BUT, Lindy saved them by grading all the blue books). Then came
three plus years in the Pacific, and as officer-in-charge of the Naval Air
Traffic Office, Pearl Harbor, I had the best damn job in the war barring
none — at least at the jr. officer level, to wit: (a) creating the office from
scratch, (b) establishing priorities and allocating air space hourly and
daily, seven days per week (it is great for the ego to be boss!) and (c)
meeting top military and civilian brass — don’t mean to name-drop, but
it was pure fun to meet and assist names in the headlines.

Following the war I sold war surplus machine tools from an office in
Washington, D.C. Did well financially but was not happy with life in
Washington, The accent was alien to my midwestern Republican back-

round. I became assistant to the president and later general manager
of J. B. Salterini, Inc., New York City (wrought iron furniture) and was
extremely happy and excited with this challenge. Mr. Salterini had no
children, I was heir-apparent. This was cut short, as hours after the
Seventh Fleet stood off Korea, I was ordered back to San Francisco as
director, Fleet Air Logistics. The duty was far less than exciting, but
California had become our home. Though the Navy robbed me of eight
years of otherwise early career life, 1 am grateful for the total experience,
learning to live and deal with people both friendly and otherwise.

I am now general manager of a small research group concerned prin-
cipally with devices to anchor large bolts in concrete. Our dry-form
chemical anchor is patented and licensed. | divide my time between this
venture and developing residential real estate, including membership in
a syndicate that now owns Muir Beach Resort, fourteen acres on the
ocean thirty minutes from San Francisco.

Re children: Lewis, twenty, stumbled through our mish-mash Cali-
fornia public school system, consumed five years in high school and is
now in his second year of marine biology at Humboldt State College.
Phoebe, nineteen (Vassar 66), majoring in mathematics. Usual reaction
of non-easterner on eastern campus, viz., end of freshman year: “Do not
want to return,” mid-sophomore year: “Like it much better.” Alex,
fifteen, followed Phoebe to Verde Valley School, Sedona, Arizona.
Founded by Hamilton Warren ’23, this is the greatest coed prep school
in the land. Work hard, play hard, high academic standards, everyone
has a community job to perform. We now have five years invested, six
to go, as Nora, thirteen, joins Alex next year. Despite the cost, I felt
at the first as 1 do now, that if they stumble academically, or I stumble
financially, they will even without college have the wav pointed to a
sense of value, people, education, life. They experience live-in field trips
to Indian reservations, Phoenix (planned “community ), and in lieu of
spring recess, the whole school packs off in a dozen trucks for six weeks
in Mexico, We also contribute to the education of a young Apache girl,
Virgelene Victor, San Carlos, Arizona, whose letters are both disturbing
and a delight. She is a full-blooded member of the San Carlos Tribe

168 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

whose young people enjoy both rock-’n’-roll and tribal dances, both pedal
pushers and beaded leather dresses, and who worry about old and new
wavs as related cto their traditional mores and white man’s pressures.
Their native tongue is Apache, and English is for them a foreign language
taught at the blackboard.

Our life in California is as perfect as I could have wished for twenty-
five years ago. We live in Mill Valley, Marin County, just north of the
Golden Gate Bridge in a rambling house, half of which was constructed
with our own hot hands. We had a barn, the children a horse. They
outgrew the horse, the county condemned the barn. So, our physical
existence changed overnight. We now have a pool, fenced in a com-
pound to hold elephants, and the horse area is being subdivided. Vocation
and community activities are cited above. To expand, we lead a happy
combination of formal-informal living. We have mass cooperative home-
theatre-drama concoctions New Year’s Eve, and other; and even wear
shoes to hit the theatre and concerts just twenty minutes away over the
Golden Gate. Vacations include camping in Europe (1958), cruising
the San Juan Islands in a rented stink-pot with rumblings of mutiny over
Dad’s mistaken efforts to resemble Captain Bligh, and the usual standby
of pack trips in the High Sierra complete with high altitude nausea, but
daily limits of golden and rainbow trout. Our leisure time is spent in
coordinated family activity, and our annual Christmas tree cutting expe-
diuon up the coast is the greatest ten family romp imaginable.

Concluding thoughts: (1) Our ratio of public spending to the Gross
National Product is just plain nutty. (z) I do think moonshot effort is
great —not because we might get there but because of the spin-off
effect on our total technology. (3) Public school salaries and standards
are out-of-date. (4) Am appalled at the wholesale rash of divorces and

college drop-outs among friends and acquaintances. (5) Politically, both

Lindy and | lean to the right, but oddly enough in our not-so-standard

suburbia most of our friends are on the left. Though serenity prevails,

this makes it hard to stay in a rut, as we do shake each other up once in

a while per bull sessions circa 1939 for which years I am grateful. (6)

And finis, 1 am madly in love with my bride of twenty-two years, our

four children, and oddly enough they tolerate me.

ROBERT LEE CALVERT

r rae Ag TT NE ce

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 169

HOME ADDRESS: 896 Salisbury St., Holden, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boy Scouts of America, 421 Belmont St., Worcester, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: $.B., cur laude, 1939; a.M., 1943.

MARRIED: Catherine Marie Shoup, Sept. 7, 1949. cHitpreNn: Lillian, Oct. 5, 1950;
Robert Lee, Jr., June 20, 1922; George, Feb. 4, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Scout executive, Mohegan Council, Boy Scouts of America.

OFFICES HELD: Divisional director, Worcester Community Chest Campaign, 1960~

63; president, P.T.A., Holden, Mass., 1963-64; vice-president, Worcester
Rotary Club. 1963-64.

A youth service career has occupied my every energy since shortly
after graduation, and taken me in turn from Manchester, New Hamp-
shire, to Coshocton, Hamilton and Dayton, Ohio ... to Europe and
North Africa and finally back to my native New England. Military
service with Army Signal Intelligence in the European Theatre from
1942 to 1945 represented the only break in this service.

With the continuing trend toward softer living and increased recrea-
tional emphasis, I am more than ever convinced of the need and purpose
of the Boy Scouts of America as a force for developing generations of
young people with exploring attitudes and self-reliance. I share, with
many, a fearful dread of the social work planners and government plan-
ners in increasingly larger numbers on the American scene.

An understanding Ohio wife (who tolerates New England winters)

and three young children (ages two to thirteen) have made mine the
happiest of lives.

DANTE FRANCESCO CAMPAGNA-PINTO +

  

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: Dept. of Pathology, Peralta Hospital, Oakland, Calif.

170 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

EDWARD ALEXANDER CAMPBELL

    

HOME ADDRESS: 300 Central Park W., New York 24, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Better Light Better Sight Bureau, 750 Third Ave., New York 17,
N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Rye High School, Rye, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936, 1938-1941. DEGREE: A.B., 1939(41).

MARRIED: Jeanne Duff Sanford, May 19, 1944. cHinpREN: Edward Alexander, Jr.
Feb. 28, 1956; Jean Elizabeth, July 21, 1958.

occupaTiION: Manager of a national, non-profit educational organization; chief
activity: publishing, public relations.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Electronic and Electrical Engineers (IEEE); [luminat-
ing Engineering Society; American Institute of Graphic Arts; Audio Engineer.
ing Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Hi Fi-Stereo Handbook, Maco Publishing; Sports Car Handbook,
Harris Press; Handyman’s TV Repair, Fawcett Books; How to Repair Ap-
pliances, Fawcett Books (paper-back books).

When I entered college, my ambition was to be a writer —a serious
fiction writer, I felt that my first course in English composition got this
idea “out of my system.” But I eventually realized that it only convinced
me that fiction was not my forte. Since then, I have had jobs as an ad
copywriter, a sales promotion writer, and a magazine editor, and on the
side have produced a ton or so of “how to do it” newsstand books.

Ultimately 1 found what seems to be an ideal situation as director of
a trade association, the principal activity of which is publishing. Although
my job doesn’t require writing, I get a chance to do some, and in addi-
tion I can put in my two cents about other people’s work.

Since the roth Anniversary Report, my wife has had two children.
We have always (since the end of World War II) been apartment
dwellers in New York City with a summer home at Westhampton
Beach (Long Island), and the principal changes in our lives since the
children have been to increase the number of rooms in each of our two
homes, and to buy a station wagon and a cat.

I'd like to see my son go to Harvard, and if he does, he'll be something
like the Class of 1977. With respect to the lateness of that date, I might
establish some sore of record for the Class of ’39!

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT i7l

LAWRENCE ALOIS CAMPBELL

      

HOME ADDRESS: 2012 Thayer Ave., Los Angeles 25, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hughes Aircraft Co., El Segundo, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; M.B.A., 1941.

MARRIED: Pamela May Smith, March 27, 1951. cxHiipREN: Douglas John and Bruce
Raimond (twins), Aug. 31, 1955.

occupation: Missile industry; budgetary assistant, Hughes Aircraft Company.

After getting an M.B.A. at Harvard Business School, I joined the Navy
as an ensign in the Supply Corps, getting my training at (of all places)
HBS! The Navy sent me to Washington, D.C., to become a bureaucrat.
I not only learned to be one but got to like it~ and fortunately so since
1 was ultimately in Washington over ten years. I did get a taste of the
“real Navy” on the USS lowa, as assistant supply officer for over a year,
cruising in the Atlantic and doing battle in a modest way in the Pacific.
When the war ended I was in Washington, D.C. (as usual), in a most
interesting cataloging job — identifying, classifying and numbering the
millions of supply items of the military. Since I felt that the world
would not return to a real peace for years, a navy career seemed logical,
even so, | never did change from my reserve status thus kept somewhat
aloof from the folderol of the regular navy life. Washington is famous
for its committees and I was active on a number of them, especially on
the cataloging committee which created a new federal system.

My next tour took me to Hawaii which was ideal for the courting and
marrying of my wife, Pam. A return to the Washington scene and more
cataloging led to another important event with the birth of our twin
sons, I next had a sample of navy retirement by going to Cleveland to
handle the payments and correspondence in connection with the navy
retired roll of 75,000, Oddly this was about the only job in navy supply
where I was not involved with the tedious task of changing navy records
to the new federal numbers I helped create! Just when we were getting
dug in and figuring we had another year left, surprise and orders to
Taiwan; this tour I spent as a “geographical bachelor,” leaving my wife
stateside since the remains of Nationalist China is hardly the place for a
young family, Our final duty brought us to the Pacitic coast where we
wanted to be all along—but in Washington instead of California. I
learned something about a controller’s function at a naval shipyard, so

172 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

used that along with other accounting experience in getting placed with
Hughes Aircraft Company upon my retirement from the Navy.

Have these changes of time, job and scenery brought any changes to
the man of ’39? This I am inclined to doubt to any real extent. My
politics have changed from a conservative Democrat to a liberal Repub-
lican; my religion from membership in the Episcopal Church to the
Christian Science Church. I have continued to be a non-joiner, still love
to play bridge, have my old mediocre golf game and have become even
more a spectator sports fan, A friend classified me some time ago as the
“home and fireside” tvpe and J guess I am living up to it. I have been
and continue to be happy and, all too often I am bound to admit, content.

CHARLES MARNE CAMPELIA

      

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 309 High St., West Medford 55, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1937. DECREE: D.M.D., cum laude, 1941.

UNMARRIED.

occupaTION: Dentist.

OFFICES HELD: Dental house officer, Children’s and Peter Bent Brigham Hospitals,
Boston, 1941-42; assistant stomatologist, Children’s Hospital, 1942-51; dentist,
1942-50, member, board of managers, since 1950, Industrial School for Crippled
Children, Boston; dentist, Reformatory for Women, Framingham, Mass., 1947-
48; secretary, 1957-61, president, 1962-63, Harvard Odontological Society;
editor, 1950-56, chairman, editorial board, 1956-60, Harvard Dental Alumni
Bulletin; chairman, Committee on Publications, Massachusetts Dental Society,
since 1963; member of staff, Lawrence Memorial Hospital, Medford, and
Somerville Hospital, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Omicron Kappa Upsilon, Harvard Chapter, National Honorary Dental
Fraternity, since 1941; Massachusetts Dental Society, American Dental Asso-
ciation, since 1941; American Academy of Dental Science (fellow), since 1960.

US. Army, World War II, 423d Field Artillery Group, ETO, 34th
Field Hospital, Pacific Theatre of Operations, 1943-46. Major, U.S.
Army Reserve, since 1945.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 173

JULIUS SIDNEY CANNER

    

HOME AppreEss: 72 Crofton Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: J.S. Canner & Co., Inc., 618 Parker St., Boston 20, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936.

MARRIED: Edna Beatrice Shapiro, March 12, 1939. CHILDREN: Mark Mitchell, May
7, 1943; Brock Franklin, March 25, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Bookseller, executive and miscellaneous.

World War II, Intelligence NCO; First Allied Airborne Army, U.S.
Air Force.

Life has been very good to me in terms of family, good friends,
rewarding and enjoyable work as well as in myriad activities of various
sorts. As to a 25th coupled with a 25th wedding anniversary and twenty-

five years in my chosen work — frankly, I never thought I would make
it. In retrospect, it was easy.

 

LAST MAILING ADpRESS: 134 Sherman St., Cambridge, Mass. 02140,

74 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

RICHARD ERNEST CARLSON

|

3

<i wie

  

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Pleasant St., Sagamore, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Carlson’s Pharmacy, Route 6, Cape Highway, Sagamore, Mass,
PREPARED AT: North Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: $.B., 1939; s.B. (Mass. Coll. of Pharmacy),

1951.
MarRIED: Marion May Schwab, Oct. 24, 1942. cur_pren: Judith Arlene, Dec. 21,

1944; Patricia Louise, Oct. 5, 1947; Linda May, Oct. 6, 1952.

occupation: Pharmacist; partner in Carlson’s Pharmacy.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Cape Cod United Fund, 1962-63; 25-year Veteran, B.S.A.;
lay leader, 1958-62, chairman, Christian Social Concerns, 1962-63, Methodist

Church.
MEMBER OF: Massachusetts State Pharmaceutical Association; Cape Cod Druggists

Association; Buzzards Bay Grange; Cape Cod Council, B.S.A.; Harvard Club
of Cape Cod; Methodist Men.

On graduation in 1939, with a major in mathematics, I entered the
State Mutual Life Assurance Company, as an actuarial clerk. Worked
there for three years, studying for exams of the National Institute of
Actuaries, I took over a Scout Troop in Worcester and scouting grew
on me to such an extent that in October, 1942, I left insurance for pro-
fessional scouting. Since I was married the same month, after returning
from Schiff Reservation Training, my wife and I really started life anew
together.

My scouting work took me through two Councils — Norumbega
during 1943-44, and what is now Tunxis Council in Connecticut, 1944-46.
My first daughter, Judy, was born while we were in Winsted, Connecti-
cut.
In 1947 I left scouting to enter pharmacy with my dad who bought
the drugstore in Sagamore. Having always loved the Cape, it was not
too difficult a decision. 1 went back to college, at the Massachusetts
College of Pharmacy, graduating in 1951. While there I was active in
Phi Delta Chi Fraternity, being their national delegate to Detroit.

Settled down now as a Cape Cod pharmacist, [am still active as a
scouting volunteer. Being licensed as a local preacher in Methodism, I
“do my bit” for the church also. My other two daughters were born on
the Cape. Judy is now at Dean Junior College for her second year, Pat
in high school and Linda in grammar school, With this fine family
growing up with me, a worthwhile occupation and time to do the
social work that enjoy, what more could any man want?

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 175

LAWRENCE WILLIAM CARSTENSEN

“a

&
C

   

HOME aAppress: 41 Cherry Lane, Fairfield, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Canada Dry Corp., 100 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREES: 8.B., cum laude, 1939; m.B.a., 1941.

MARRIED: Anne Curtis, Oct. 24, 1953. cuitpren: Lawrence William, Jr., Oct. 3,
1954; Andrew Brooks, Feb. 25, 1957.

occuPATION: Budget manager, Canada Dry Corporation, beverages.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Pequot Library, Pequot Yacht Club, both Southport,
Conn.

MEMBER OF: Pequot Yacht Club; Pequot Library Association.

In the fall after graduation 1 entered the Harvard Business School and
remained there until May of 1941, when I was ordered to active duty
with the Navy as an ensign. After about five years of Navy duty, I was
released in September of 1946, as a commander.

From 1946 to 1949 I held the position of production manager at the
United American Soda Fountain Corporation in Watertown, Massachu-
setts, and played golf, thirty-six to seventy-two holes per weekend at
the Dedham Country and Polo Club,

In 1949 1 moved my working location to New York and joined Fruit
of the Loom, Inc., as assistant to the president, a job with no specific
duties but many and varied assignments including learning to ski with
my boss, operating from his farm on Bromley Mountain in Vermont. I
learned to enjoy skiing but became spoiled as far as accommodations
were concerned and have not skied for several years. The sport is fun
if you can arrive at the ski area Friday for dinner and get back to the
office early Monday afternoon, meanwhile living in the lap of luxury,
but rush trips to a crowded lodge are not my cup of tea.

In 1953 my life changed radically for the better when I met and married
Anne Curtis of Southport, Connecticut. I ceased to be a rolling stone
and settled down to the joys of my own family and a place I could
really call home. I gave up golf and skiing, without any regrets, for the
pleasures of establishing roots and the happy life of a commuter.

After the arrivals of our two sons and renting houses in the Southport
area, Anne and I bought some property in 1957. We immediately
started planning our dream house and finally moved into it in March of
1959. We had both developed a strong love for plants and gardening
with the result that our interests were directly reflected in our house.

176 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Our breakfast area at the end of the kitchen is a greenhouse and a larger
one off the living room, equipped with captain’s chairs, makes a de-
lightful winter cocktail room, We live a typical country life of early to
bed and early rising with the weekends devoted to maintenance of the
place, sailing and fishing which all of the family enjoys.

In 1962 I jomed Canada Dry Corporation and again found the work
and people most stimulating and pleasant. I like variety in my work and
as budget manager of this beverage giant, I get plenty of it. From ginger
ale to bourbon whiskey is a big jump but we have it and my work covers
the entire range.

Life has been good to me and I look forward to a lot more of it. With
a wonderful family all in good health and a pleasant spot to call home

who could be anything but happy?

CHARLES CARY

   
         

 

HOME apprEss: 90 Chapin Pkwy., Buffalo 9, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Diebold & Millonzi, 438 Main St., Buffalo 2, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREES: s.B., 1939; LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia), 1942.

MARRIED: Rhoda Coogan, Feb. 1, 1947. cHILDREN: Charles Coogan, Sept. 12, 1948;
George Gordon, April 1, 1950; Trumbull, May 30, 1952; Thomas Cutting,
Dec. 6, 1955.

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Executive vice-president, Buffalo & Erie County Planning Associa-
tion, 1955; president, Harvard Club of Buffalo, 1956; member, board of
directors, Buffalo Fine Arts Academy (Albright Art Gallery), 1948-63; Ist
vice-president and member, board of directors, Buffalo & Erie County His-
torical Society, 1947-63; vestryman, Trinity Episcopal Church, 1952-55.

MEMBER OF: Saturn Club; Buffalo Country Club; River Club (New York City).

As my father said in his soth Anniversary Report of the Harvard
Class of 1883, “My main interests and hobbies are my four children” —
$o are mine, in this case four sons, Beyond that 1 don’t know, except I
have a sheep farm and a few race horses,

I look forward to our z5th Reunion.

~~~<euncscituomatencnaseensnsinmaasnen ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 177

JAMES WILLIAM CASSIDY

 

HOME Appress: 69 Wilk Rd., (Fords) Edison Township, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Schering Corp., Bloomfield, NJ.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Louise Gertrude Healey, Nov. 14, 1953. cHitp: James Joseph, Aug. 16,

1959.
occupaTion: Assistant to director, Quality Control Division, Schering Corporation,

pharmaceutical manufacturing.
OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Edison (N.J.) Taxpayers Association (second
term); Republican Committeemen from 7th Election District, Edison, N.J.,

third term.

MEMBER OF: New York Academy of Science; local Civic Association; Edison Tax-
payers Association; Middlesex County Republican Committee.

PUBLICATIONS: “Some Considerations on the Biological Utilization of Long-acting
Testosterone Esters’; “Influence of Nitrogen Intake on Nitrogen Retaining
Action of Testosterone Propionate”; “Some Factors Influencing Thymus Nitro-
gen Content of the Immature Male Mouse”: “Biological Properties of a Highly
Purified Preparation of 17—Alpha Estradiol.”

After graduation I did graduate work in physiology at Boston Uni-
versity School of Medicine for a year and then entered the U.S. Army.
Upon completion of basic training, I attended Officers Candidate School
at Edgewood Arsenal, Maryland, and was commissioned a second lieu-
tenant in the Chemical Warfare Service, Shortly after receiving my
commission I went to England as a platoon leader. As a participant in
each of the five major engagements in the ETO, including the invasion
of Normandy via Omaha Beach on D-Day and the Battle of the Bulge,
I saw more than enough of death and destruction. After V-E Day, as
commander of a 5o-mile area in Bavaria, I was fortunate to be able to
participate in the initial stage of rehabilitation in postwar Germany.

Upon my return to the United States and subsequent discharge from
the Army in 1946 as a captain, I joined Schering Corporation, a pharma-
ceutical manufacturer, as an associate physiologist i in the research division.

I have remained with Schering since that time although in a variety of

positions, each one more stimulating and more challenging than the

preceding ones.
In 1953 I married Louise Healey and in 1959 our son was born. In

1960 we moved to a new home in Edison, New Jersey, a fast growing

town of 45,000 inhabitants. I immediately became involved in local

RRR UR PROMO RTE OE AO | .

178 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

affairs, particularly of the political variety. I have found this type of

extracurricular activity both exciting and frustrating.
In reflecting on my life to date, 1 am amazed at but very thankful for

my success in the inadvertent attainment of really worthwhile objectives
—a wonderful wife, a fine son, good health, a rewarding career and a
better perspective of life. All of these add up to more happiness than

any one man really deserves.

WADDILL CATCHINGS, JR.

» Shoe ata iM mt nas

   

1a ACL a Pea AI OE IGE kage

 

HOME appress: Box Y, Aspen, Colo. 81611.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Little Annie Development Corp., Box Y, Aspen, Colo. 81611.
PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.; Evans School, Tuscon, Ariz.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1939.

UN MARRIED.

OccUPATION: President and general manager, Little Annie Development Corpora-
tion which at present operates Little Annie Tours.

OFFicES HELD: Director, Aspen Chamber of Commerce for many years, president
for one year; director, Aspen Ski Club; councilman, Aspen City Council;
member, Board of Adjustment (zoning), City of Aspen, one and one-half

years.
MEMBER OF: Aspen Ski Club; AOPA.

In the fall of 1939 1 went to work in New York City for the Muzak
Corporation. I worked as an assistant recording technician for about two
years and at the time of Pearl Harbor was doing sales work. My “greet-
ings” arrived shortly thereafter and I was inducted in the Army at Fort
Upton in February, 1942. Was assigned to the Signal Corps but later
transferred to Air Corps cadets, | was admitted to pilot training and
progressed to solo flying at which stage I requested transfer to ground
status. From the air base at Ocala, Florida, | was sent to Biloxi, Mis-
sissippi, and there assigned to gunnery school at Lowry Air Base in °
Denver, Colorado. Here I first got the thrill of Colorado living. After
gunnery training [ was assigned to advanced study of the electronic
gunnery systems on the B-29. Following this, | went ro the 444th Bomber
Group in Great Bend, Kansas. In the spring of 1944 we were sent to 2
base west of Caleurra in India. Here we spent an inreresting year during
which f had the opportunity to fly the “Hump” for a week in China.

In the spring of ty45, we were transferred by boat to ‘Tinian in the

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 179

Marianas — spent a delightful day on leave in Perth, Australia. With the
war over in August, I was returned to the States in September — a two-
day layover in Hawaii— and Jater discharged. Military service for me
was therefore lots of school and a fine tour of the globe!

While in the service I made up my mind that life in the city was not
for me. Although I was not sure just what phase of non-city life I should
get into, I returned to Lake Placid, New York, to an area where I had
spent many pleasant days of childhood. I had always enjoyed skiing and
had often spent weekends in Vermont and New Hampshire while in
college. I remained in Lake Placid from the fall of 1945 until the fall
of 1950.

During this time I was involved in various phases of resort work. 1
helped run a lodge for two summers, was a partner in a ski shop for two
winters and had my own a third. I was on a ski patrol one winter,
another as ski instructor. Snow conditions during 1949-50 were poor
and I decided to return to Colorado for a week or two of skiing. To
make it simple, I liked what I found and returned permanently the
following fall. I have lived in Aspen since then and enjoyed every minute
of it. It is a small community in size only. We are fortunate to have
some of the finest skiing in the world and some of the finest scenery.
Further, due to the vision of the late Walter Paepcke, Aspen has a
cultural program than which there is none better. I enjoy the summer
music festival, lectures and forums by persons who are leaders in their
fields. This, combined with the fine Colorado climate, is the ideal.

As for my activities during these past thirteen years, again they have
been a varied lot. For four winters | was “housemother” at the big
local ski dorms. For four more I was an instructor in the Aspen Ski
School. I was fortunate to be able to ski, travel, and study European
resorts two other winters. During the summers I have been a laborer,
lift attendant, manager of properties for the Aspen Music School. I
even worked one winter on a production crew filming a “Walt Disney
Presents” TV show. At one time I had dreams of building and operat-
ing a lodge. Since I couldn’t raise the small capital for this venture I
decided to go for broke and build a ski area. So for the past three years
or so Little Annie has been my baby and with luck and much more work
she will soon grow up. I hope that ’39 skiers will at some time be able to
join me in some fine powder skiing!

180 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

DUDLEY FOULKE CATES +

nee

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: Lake Avenue, Greenwich, Conn.

RALPH FULLER CAUTLEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6264 Robison Rd., Cincinnati 13, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Procter & Gamble Co., Ivorydale Technical Center, Cin-
cinnati 17, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Western Reserve Academy, Hudson, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: $.B., cum laude, 1939,

MARRIED: Helen Rutherford, March 4, 1944, cHiLpREN: David Fuller, July 16,
1950; John Robert, Sept. 8, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Manufacturing; head of employee services and statistics, industrial
relations division, The Procter & Camble Company. Administration of benefit
programs, evaluation and cost studies, development of computer applications
in personnel statistics.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Cincinnati, Schools Committee.

In July, 1939, I went to work for Procter & Gamble, still my employer.
Hired for industrial relations, my first assignment was in production
supervision at P & G’s Chicago plant. In 1941 I transferred to technical
employment work in Cincinnati, Ohio, Ivory-hunting for a season.

Next came a naval interlude, Early in 1942 I moved to the Naval
Ordnance Laboratory, Washington, D.C., to help try to corner the mar-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 181

ket in engineers and physicists. The laboratory’s job was design of mines,
torpedoes and depth charges, and design of gear to protect our ships
against similar enemy pleasantries. In 1943 I asked for sea duty and was
sent to an ancient destroyer, USS Dablgren, a rusty old knife one hun-
dred yards long and thirty feet wide. This was easy duty. By then the
Atlantic tide was in our favor. The Dahlgren did odd jobs up and down
the east coast, patrol, training, target ship for experimental torpedoes.
My few anxious moments came from reading about Germany’s heavy-
water plants and Channel rocket sites. I knew of our atomic bomb proj-
ect and the probability of parallel efforts in Germany. Who would be
first?

I served on the Dahlgren finally as an executive officer, unul released
to inactive duty in late 1945.

Civilians again (my wife was a WAVE), we toured western ski slopes
in Colorado, Utah, Washington and California, until time and money and
restlessness were gone. Then back to Procter & Gamble; additional ex-
perience in production supervision, assignments as plant personnel man-
ager in Ohio, Tennessee and California, returning in 1956 to the central
industrial relations staff in Cincinnati,

We like the mountains and have camped throughout the Rockies and
the Sierras. In quieter winter hours we enjoy watercolors, playing the
tenor recorder, and reading. We have no TV: my family tells me in this
matter I have acted undemocratically.

In politics we are inactive liberals, in religion, humanists, though we
attend the Unitarian Church to provide some mild indoctrination for our
children. Ages eight and thirteen, they arrived late in our lives, and have
kept us tired, broke, and young in heart.

The record is unremarkable; the years ahead look good.

PHILIP HEMENWAY CHADBOURN, JR.

go Re ee a

   

P
,

 

HOME AbDpress: American Embassy, Vientiane, Lavs.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of State, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: South Pasadena High School, South Pasadena, Calif.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: a.B., 1939.

mMarRIED: Jacqueline Wilson, June, 1950. cHiepren: Claudia Packard, Jan. 15,
1953; Cynthia Glenn, Feb. 29, 1956.

182 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

occupation: Foreign Service Officer; Counselor of Embassy; Deputy Chief of
Mission.

OFFICES HELD: Member, editorial board, Foreign Service Journal, 1958-61.

MEMBER OF: Commandeur de la Confrérie des Chevaliers du Tastevin, Compa-
gnon du Beaujolais, Chevalier de St. Vincent; Harvard Club of Paris; Foreign

Service Association.

Life has come full circle: Fellow Weld Haller and thirty-niner Len
Unger, now an ambassador, and I are together again in the Embassy in
Vientiane, Laos. In the interim I have had a variety of gypsy-like
experiences in the Army, business and Foreign Service. After a rather
dull encounter with banking in Southern California, I enlisted in the
Army as a private in 1941. Then in a moment of aberration I volunteered
for the paratroopers and eventually, one fine moonlight night, found
myself jumping into occupied Brittany with two Frenchmen to join the
French resistance movement. Nice thing about guerilla fighting is that
you get a medal every time you do what your instincts insist you do —
run away. I wound up the war comfortably as a well-fed major in
charge of special counter-intelligence in southern France. The next
vear I spent traveling about western Europe in the bidet business, and
in 1948, after a series of rough examinations, I entered the Foreign
Service.

I was first sent to Calcutta (fascinating) as a vice consul, and this was
followed by assignments to Frankfurt (dreary), Salzburg (dreamy) and
Lyon (fattening). Then came four years as special assistant to Ambas-
sador Douglas Dillon in Paris during the exciting but agonizing period
of the French struggle in Indo-China, the EDC and the Suez crisis. My
two daughters were born during this time in Paris, bringing me the
greatest continuous joy I have yet experienced. Assignment to the State
Department then for four years presumably re-Americanized me and
also gave me the happy occasion to yell myself hoarse at nearby
Princeton-Harvard football games every other fall.

Then, in 1961, I was sent to Laos as counselor of Embassy and Deputy
Chief of Mission. Although life here sometimes may seem more moon-
like than terrestrial, I have had an interesting, frequently exciting, some-
times pleasant three years. For me at least, the strain of the ever-recurring
crises here has been alleviated by a lot of tennis, water-skiing in the
muddy Mckong and limbo-rocking. Moreover, working hard and

playing hard out here in the jungles have helped me to weather the
inevitable legal wrangling and anguish of a divorce. By the time of our
Reunion | surely will have been transferred to another post, hopefully
somewhere in Southeast Asia which, to my surprise, I find very much
to my hiking. All in all, life in the Foreign Service, a career I had decided
upon in high school, has been more rewarding than I could have ever
expected.

$=: arctan trite St OTP TOT TT Te

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT I 83

RICHARD MERRIAM CHADBOURNE

    

HOME apprEss: 550 Park Ave., New York 21, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: F.M. Chadbourne & Co., 744 Broad St., Newark 2, N.J.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Partner, F. M. Chadbourne & Company, investment securities, broker
dealer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York: Grand Jury Association, New York
County; Young Republican Club; Adirondack League Club.

As previously reported, I entered the investment securities business
after graduation, being employed by the firm of F. M. Chadbourne &
Company in Newark, New Jersey. My father (Harvard 1906) is the
founder and, for the last ten years, 1 have been the other partner. Not
long ago a friend remarked that ours was the oldest of its type in New
Jersey. During the war, I served for a little under four years in the
Army Finance Department.

Not having been married, I can only report to those of you who may
have met them that both parents are well. My hobbies are principally
hunting and fishing and conservation, with a little gardening thrown in.
Recently my operations have been in the Adirondack Mountains where
I am a member of our club’s fish and game committee. In connection
with the last, I have enjoyed exchanging ideas with members of the
Conservation Department at Cornell and with others. These interests
have led me to Canada and Newfoundland in past years,

My other activities have been modest, serving on various New York
County Grand Juries which is most interesting, and at times I have been
active in a small way in Republican politics. Within the party my
leaning is toward the independent and progressive.

As a somewhat unorthodox Episcopalian I find a great deal to admire
and respect in the lives and work of those who have other affiliations.

184 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

JOHN ROBERT CHAISSON

    

HOME ADDRESS: 39 Longfellow Ave., Brunswick, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Second Marine Division, Camp Lejeune, N.C.

PREPARED AT: Swampscott High School, Swampscott, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

MarRieD: Marguerite Martin, Feb. 22, 1946. CHILDREN: Joseph Michael, Dec. 30,
1946; Dorothy, Sept. 25, 1948; Jane, Sept. 12, 1950; Thomas Martin, June 20,
1952.

occupation: Colonel, U.S. Marine Corps, currently serving in Second Marine
Division.

For nearly twenty-four years I have served as a commissioned officer
in the U.S. Marine Corps. It has been an active and inspiring life. In
retrospect, the total career of a Marine has more rhyme, reasons and
reward (not financial) than it appeared to have at the outset, or at any
given point along the way.

Conceding that I backed into this career as a result of my World
War II experiences, I have, nonetheless, given it my full energy and
enthusiasm. Far from being a free ride, it has taxed my abilities to the
limit. The Marine Corps has been good to me and, to the modest extent
that it has been achieved, the impact of a few Harvard men has not
hurt the Corps.

My career has been leavened with several tours in the Pacific area, the
Far East and Europe. During my stateside interludes, I have held a
couple of respectable jobs in Washington, have been involved in several
aspects of military schooling and, on the side, have contributed something
less than half to the effort of raising a family of four. All are now in
their teens with the eldest at Andover, hopefully heading for Harvard.

My wife, who has borne the many surprises of a service life with grace
and patience, is dreaming of a place to settle where she can forget the
fifteen moves we have made in eighteen years.

T don’t know how much longer | shall serve in the Marine Corps but,
very soon, I must make up my mind whether to pursue this as a career
or continue to revel in it as a labor of love!

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 185

WILLIAM EDWARD CHALECKI

resourses nen KEN LN les I PEN
SOA oy, ”

ETNIES Ce Ee oe a Rr a an
nl

  

at

  

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 543 Lakeview Ave., Jamestown, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lewis High School, Plantsville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; m.p. (Univ. of Rochester), 1943.

MARRIED: Lois Blanche Horton, 1944, cHILDREN: Cherryl Ann, Sept. 27, 1945;
Linda Lee, May 5, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Physician — gynecologist.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Section of Obstetrics and Gynecology, Jamestown Gen-
eral Hospital, 1962, W.C.A. Hospital, 1960; chairman of hospital staff, James-
town General Hospital, 1961; member, executive committee, Chautauqua
County Cancer Society.

MEMBER OF: American College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists (fellow) ;
American Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology (diplomate); Moonbrook
Country Club.

After a fair amount of reflection regarding the last twenty-five years,
I have arrived at the wistful conclusion that the flight of time is gaining
momentum. In a general way I can best relate an account of my activities
by admitting the continued influence of Harvard. To this day, my
personal habits remain comparatively unaffected; the quest for truth,
tolerance and individuality, fortified by undergraduate days, continues
unabated .*. ..

EDWARD MATTHEWS

  

Wb W AD lc Diai ts ed aia

Abbiidiial

 

HOME AppRrESS: Shannondale Farm, Hillsboro Road, Purcellville, Va.

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

186 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

OFFICE ADDRESS: Loudon Country Day School, Leesburg, Va.
PREPARED AT: Gilman Country School, Baltimere, Md.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939,
MARRIED: Kathryn Bishop Taylor, July 19, 1941, cHtLb: Taylor Matthew
15, 1942. ; 8 June
occupation: Teacher of history and Latin.
oFFices HELD: Charter member of board of directors and treasurer Ww
Foundation, Inc.; director and recording secretary, Loudon County pitertord
Society; president, Waterford Players; chairman, Loudon County Ca wetorical
for Virginia Home Society; vice-chairman, Blue Ridge District, Natigns
Capital Area Council, Boy Scouts of America and other scouting positio tonal
cluding cubmaster and scoutmaster; vestryman and registrar, St ns in.
Church; finance chairman, Republican Committee for Jefferson ‘Diam
Loudon County; secretary, Loudon Sketeh Club. Strict,
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.; University Club of Wash}
Loudon County Historical Society; Loudon Sketch Club; Waterford )
Classical Association of Middle West and South; Vergillian Soc
County Chapter, Virginia Museum of Fine Arts.

ee ;
: ayers:
lety > Loudon

Looking back over the past twenty-five years, I see that I have been a
most fortunate person. My good wife has given purpose to nearly all of
these years, and we jointly share our pride in a splendid son now about
to graduate from Cornell.

Our first venture together was a little private school in Waterford
Virginia, but the outbreak of war and the problems of gas rationing
forced the closing of the school. I had sniffed the delightful scent of
chalk dust, however, and had found that teaching was my real happiness,

The difficult war years were occupied with government service, first
for the War Production Board, and later for the Bureau of Post Office
Inspectors. I have always valued this experience and gained from it a
lasting respect for the devoted service rendered by the career govern-
ment worker, even though my politics have leaned more and more
toward the theory that the best governed country is the least governed.

With the war over, farm management was an interest until I could
return to teaching, at first in huge public school classes, and finally in my
present position as teacher in a growing country day school in my home
community. I am locking forward to the day when I shall teach a child
whose parent I have taught in former years.

My greatest outside interest has been my twelve years in Boy Scout
work. I count it as my greatest honor that I was asked to serve for five
years as a unit leader.

As for my social, political and religious convictions, I find that the
years have increased an awareness of their value. Harvard effectually
opened my mind to intellectual integrity, whether on the part of a
Catholic, Protestant or Jew; white man or Negro. Prejudice and fear,

I hold, are today America’s greatest danger — greater even than the
threat of Russia’s military might. L try to teach my school children, 4s
I tried to teach my Boy Scouts, something of the service we owe our
country and God. T remind them that our flag, the symbol of our
liberties and the authority of government, has witnessed the development

of a great nation formed through the bitter, hard work of brave men who

were not expecting the government to feed, clothe, and educate them
or their children. They were working to improve opportunity for
greater strength to come —a strength not only material and physica

re

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 16
but also moral and spiritual. It saddens me to think that the publ:

echools must now abandon classroom prayer and the teaching of reve
ace for God as one of the chief cornerstones of our nation’s greatness.
e Fortes Deus adiuvat. ’

FRANK LINCOLN CHAMBERLIN, JR.

    

HOME ADDRESS: 37-30 83d St., Jackson Heights, N.Y. 11372.
OFFICE ADDRESS: W. K. Wallace & Co., 444 Madison Ave., N.Y. 10022.
PREPARED AT: King School, Stamford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: 4.B., magna cum laude, 1939; LL.B. (Colum-
bia Univ.), 1948.

MARRIED: Moira McNamee, Jan. 17, 1961, New York, N.Y. cup: Siobhan Brid,
Aug. 9, 1963.

occuUPATION: Tax attorney and tax writer.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles on the law of federal income, estate and gift
taxation.

In September, 1939, I entered the School of Law, Columbia University,
and was elected an editor of the Columbia Law Review. From 1941
until early in 1946 I served in the Army of the United States. Service
areas included the South Pacific and the Philippines. In 1947 I resumed
my law study and received my degree the following year, when I was
admitted to the bar of the state of New York. From then on, after
mutually unsatisfactory experiences with some of the elite Wall Street
firms, I began a specialization in federal taxes, primarily income tax.

So far as my professional work is concerned, federal tax law is
analogous to criminal law in revealing the seamier side of life, except
that in federal tax cases the fraud, and the perjury, and the whole
sordid mess appear at the so-called top level of society. This is in addi-
tion to the expense account bums who have the curious notion that
the peasants should pick up the tab for their living expenses and de-
aucheries, Of course, the junior Senator from Arizona believes these
‘ame peasants should bear the entire expense of government by sub-
‘tituting a sales tax for the income tax. To show that he really has his
fart in it he would also like to take from them their Social Security.

1S is all covered with a thin veneer of allegiance to states’ rights, the

nine allegiance which caused Lee to desert the Army he was sworn
© serve,

oO

188 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Along with Lincoln, John Fitzgerald Kennedy now belongs to the
Ages. The utterly unbelievable has become fact and with it 100 years
of history have been turned back. And while desperate efforts, reminis-
cent of the burning of the Reichstag by Hitler, are being made to
identify his assassin quickly and finally as an obscure Marxist, it will
remain, as long as the history of this country is written and read, the
good people of Dallas, and of Birmingham, and of Jackson who, directly
or indirectly, must bear the burning shame and stigma of his murder,
and the murder of Evers, and the murder of the Negro children of
Birmingham, just as their forebears are branded with guilt of every
lynching since the guns were stilled at Appomattox.

" But if John Fitzgerald Kennedy, unlike Lincoln, is not to have given
his life for nothing, then we must be willing to do what has to be done.
What has to be done is distasteful and costly, but it is simple and
without alternative. We must let the world and every single one

of these fifty United States know that whether it requires scorching

the earth and obliterating every living creature or not, the laws of the

United States will be enforced with equal vigor in every state of this

Union. Such is the price of a government of laws and not of men. If

the South will understand no language but brute force, then let it be

brute force. Theirs is the choice, not ours.

Personally, the most important and rewarding event in my entire
life was, and continues to be, my marriage in 1961 to a very beautiful
girl. Conceitedly, I waited a long time, but this time everything came
to him who waits. While most of you are now accumulating grand-
children, my wife and I are watching with eternal amazement the
development of our four-month-old daughter. Indeed, life seems to be
just beginning for me, as it has just so prematurely ended for one far

worthier.

WILLIAM NISBET CHAMBERS

  

HOME ADORESS: 6601 Waterman Ave., St. Louis 30, Mo.

OFFICE abDHESS: Dept, of Political Science, Washington University, St. Louis 30,
MGs,

Parpanep at: John Burroughs School, St, Lovin, Mo,

YEARS IN COLLbLD: 1935-1959, pianes: s.6., magna cum faude, 1939; PH.o. (Wash-
ington Laiv,), 1949,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT I 89

MARRIED: Susan Jane Ross, April 16, 1941. cuitpren: Mary Reid, Jan. 11, 1942;
(William) David, April 1, 1945; Catherine Jane, Dec. 16, 1952.

occupation: Political scientist and historian; lecturer to professor of political
science, Washington University.

OFFICES HELD: Visiting Fellow in General Education, Harvard University, 1956-57;
visiting professor of political history, Columbia University, 1959; visiting
scholar, Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences, Palo Alto,
1960; chairman, Planning Committee, Conference on Democracy in the Mid-
Twentieth Century, McDonnell Aircraft Foundation, 1958, chairman, Mc-
Donnell Lectures on Democracy, 1960, master of Forsyth Houses, 1960-62,
Washington University; chairman, American Government and Politics See.
tion, American Political Science Association, 1963; Senior Research Award
in Governmental Affairs, Social Science Research Council, 1962-63; Research
Award in Constitutional Democracy, Rockefeller Foundation, 1963-64; re-
search associate or grantee, American Philosophical Society, American Council
of Learned Societies, Carnegie Corporation, Ford Foundation; secretary, Phi
Beta Kappa, Pi Sigma Alpha, Washington University.

pusLicaTions: Old Bullion Benton: Senator from the New West, 1782-1858, At-
lantic-Little, Brown, Boston, 1956; Political Parties in a New Nation: The
American Experience, 1776-1809, Oxford University Press, New York, 1963;
The Democrats, 1789-1964: A Short History of a Popular Party, Van Nos-
trand, Princeton, 1964. Collab.: The American Social System: Social Control
and Individual Choice, Houghton Mifflin, Boston, 1956; American Government:
Problems for Analysis, Dodd, Mead, New York, 1959; Democracy in the Mid-
Twentieth Century: Problems and Prospects, Washington University Press,
St. Louis, 1960; America’s Ten Greatest Presidents, Rand-McNally, Chicago,
1961; Democracy Today, Collier Books, New York, 1962. Articles in Encyclo-
pedia Americana, Encylopedia Britannica, Collier's Encyclopedia. Miscellan-
eous articles and reviews in professional journals, newspapers, magazines. The
first book, Old Bullion Benton, was included in the new White House Library,
1963.

At present I am in Florence, Italy, with my wife and our younger
daughter. We have a charming apartment in the hills south of the city,
just off the Viale Machiavelli, appropriately, and near the delightful
Bobolino gardens where I often sit to look at the flowers, listen to the
fountain and watch the parade. From my study I can look over the
cypresses of the Boboli gardens to the Bellosguardo and the Cascine west
of the city and on to the Tuscan mountains; and our front balcony pro-
vides a beautiful view of hills, olive groves and the medieval Torre del
Gallo where Galileo conducted astronomical observations. We are
fifteen minutes from the Galleria Uffizi which symbolizes the grace and
invigoration of the spirits this city provides. Despite these and other
distractions I am busy on a full-length analytical-historical study of the
Democratic party in the United States as a factual and theoretical case
study in party development and behaviour, based on five years of
research which I brought with me; and I have also been occupied with
preparing a paper for an international conference in Rome on political
integration in new nations, and with planning and editing a short book
on the modern presidency and presidential staff from Roosevelt to
Kennedy. We plan to travel through France and settle again in Cam-
bridge, England, in June when the weather and the tourist-trade get
hot here and the climate becomes livable on the Cam,

Our elder daughter and our son are at college, one at Washington
University in St, Louis and the other at Lawrence College in Appleton,
Wisconsin, but we hope that they will be able to join us in Cambridge
during their summer vacations. Meanwhile my wife learns to shop in

190 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

scores of little stores here for everything from truffles to that real
rarity, peanut butter, all in Italian and the mannered, operatic style
which the shopkeepers set; and our younger daughter studics ancient
history, Italian, and French at Miss Barry’s School, along wich other
subjects which would be considered in the United States more appro-
priate to her “level.” After two years’ leave of absence for research and
writing, one at home and one in Italy, I will be happy to get back to
teaching at Washington University this coming fall — and to completing
and revising the Democratic party manuscript I will bring home with me,

LANGDON WILD CHANDLER, JR.

Rr carp ee oayep gaye eae =

PERE a ie ements te)

  

HOME ADDRESS: 212 Westbrook Drive, Springfield 9, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Smith, Kline & French Laboratories, Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED aT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.; Huntington Preparatory
School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pECREE: s.B., 1939(40).

MaRRiED: Evelyn Rich, Dec. 27, 1941. cuHitp: Bruce Thompson, Aug. 5, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Pharmaceutical manufacturing; professional service representative,
contacting medical profession, pharmacists and hospitals,

OFFICES HELD: President, Young Men’s Republican Club, Watertown, Mass., 1950-
51; chairman of camping and activities, Algonquin District, Pioneer Valley
Council, Boy Scouts of America, 1960-63.

MEMBER OF: Berkshire Chapter, Appalachian Mountain Club.

Shortly after college, went to work in the publications department of
the Ordnance Department at Raritan Arsenal, Metuchen, New Jersey,
and while there met and married Evelyn Rich of Metuchen. In February
1942, commissioned in Ordnance Department as second heutenant. Later
transferred to Air Corps and eventually became navigator in 8th Air
Force. After brief tour in ETO, returned to States in time for birth of
son in August, 1945. Returning to civilian life the same year, spent
several unsettled years in the business machine field and office work
before entering selling. As a professional service representative in the
pharmaceutical industry for the past ten years have been engaged in a
peculiarly responsible and fascinating form of selling which has been
very satisfying to me.

Recreational interests are mainly bridge as an indoor activity, with
camping, sailing and hiking as major outdoor interests. For the past

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 191

nine or ten years have been actively engaged in volunteer work with
various Boy Scout groups in the area in such positions as scoutmaster,
director of scoutmaster training for the local council and presently
camping and activities chairman for our district. For me, the adult
associations in Scouting have taken the place of fraternal organizations
and by helping boys to become responsible citizens through the Boy
Scout program T feel that 1 am participating in a true community
service, And, despite occasional headaches, it’s been fun!

DANIEL CHANSKY

    

HOME AppreEss: 64-15 211th St., Bayside 64, N_Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 109-33 71st Rd., Forest Hills 75, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1936-1939. pecREES: A.B., 1939; m.o. (Tufts Coll.), 1943.

MARRIED: Ruth Marian Gerst, Feb. 21, 1944 (divorced 1957) ; Joan Elaine Kretsch
MacLaughlan, December, 1957. cHiLpREN: Claudia Evelyn, Oct. 11, 1947;
Aviva Shlomith, Sept. 15, 1961.

occuPaTION: Physician — psychiatrist.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; APA; Queens County Medical Asso-
ciation; New York Academy of Sciences; American Rhododendron Society;
American Violet Society; North American Lily Society; Temple Isaiah; New
York Archeological Society.

Since graduation at Harvard — received M.D. at Tufts, 1943, intern-
ship at Hospital for Joint Diseases, New York City; married February
21, 1944; captain, U.S. Army, October, 1944, to December, 1946 —
enjoyed cultural aspects of Italy with 88th Division, especially music,
opera-—~ with Amfoge — Greece — Crete —thrilled by Knossos and
Parthenon in Athens, poverty and illness Crete distressing. Threat of
Tito vs. U.S. very real, June, 1946, While at opera — Archibald Davison
and E. B. Hill of Music Department always in mind. Postwar, LaScala
opening — heard Toscanini and beginning of Mephistopheles while near
town of Aquileia, Frioli,

Return to New York and a different reality — setting up a medical
practice in Hollis, New York, September, 1947, prior to birth of Claudia.
After contact with Industrial Med.. New York Telephone, Republic
Aviation, realized devastating effects of functional illness. Took post-
poned course for veterans, Cornell Medical Service, Bellevue Hospital,

192 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

met Dr. John Dietrich (now dean, Cornell Medical School) and Dr,
J. J. Smith (now of V.A.) brilliant teachers of Drs. Hisaw and Rand of
Biology Department fame. Worked Memorial Center for Cancer,
November, 1948, to September, 1955. Wonderful experience — Cancer
Prevention Clinic ——Dr. Emerson Day and Dr. Rulon W. Rawson
(formerly Massachusetts General). Began psychiatric residency, Creed-
moor State Hospital, Queens Village, New York, November, 1952.
Private practice of psychiatry begun September, 1955, Jamaica, New
York. Wonderful experience. Hillside Hospital, clinic asst. psychiatry,
April, 1957. After divorce, August, 1957, things begin to fall into place,
furthered by marriage to Joan, December, 1957.

Classical Freudian psychoanalysis begun and great changes personally,
professionally. Throughout all this interest for music never waned —
nor interest in gardening and temporarily breeding parakeets to study
their family life (not published). Professionally, on staff of City
Hospital since 1959,

Our Aviva born September, 1961, after several years’ wait. This year
we have a home in Bayside where I can relearn Dr. Livingston Beadle’s
precepts of BIO D. Am now intrigued with lilies and perhaps I can
cross a few strains—thanks to stimuli of Dr. Kenneth V. Thimann,
Dr. Oakes Ames and Dr. Paul Vestal,

My advice to students — if you need help in this highly charged society
—see a psychiatrist and fight for the mental health movements. Avail-
ability of psychotherapy in high school and college will reduce devastat-
ing effects of emotional disability. With pride as a member of 739, I
hope Pll be around for next round of major celebrations of Class of °39.

JOHN REVERE CHAPIN, JR.

    

Rye
oe . _ 1 "
fe a

HOME apprEss: Horse Hollow Road, Locust Valley, N.Y.
OFFICE AppRESS: Cobleigh & Gordon, Inc., Room 2508, 220 E. 42d St., New York,

PREPARED at: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937.

MARRIED: Audrey Gray. CHILDREN: Henry Laurence, June 22, 1944; Caroline Wendy,
May 18, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, new business, Cobleigh & Gordon Company, Inc.,
financial and economic consultants.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 19

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of Zoning Board of Appeals, Town of Lattingtown, Lon
Island, N.Y.

MEMBER OF: Bond Club of New York; Lunch Club, New York; Piping Rock Clu]
Locust Valley, N.Y.

It is hard to believe that here it is twenty-five years later and a granc
father yet. Those days of worrying about what one’s section man we
going to give you in History 1 or whether the Dean’s office would giv
you one more chance seem like yesterday.

After leaving Harvard I spent one year as a trainee in the investmer
banking firm of Kidder Peabody & Company in Boston. Early in Jun.
1940, F.D.R. decided to make 10,000 new ensigns for the Naval Reserv:
They took most that came, and it was good that they forgot to chec
my flat feet. After three months I was off to the Pacific and six yea:
later with many miles of ocean under my belt, it was back to th
investment business, but this time in New York at Kidder Peabody
Company.

Since 1946 I have been in various areas of the investment busine
including retailing, wholesaling and advising others how to invest the
hard earned dollars. Fortunately, I have been able to break the routir
with several trips to the European snow country and summer weekenc
cruising and racing sailboats.

JOSEPH WARREN CHAPMAN t¢

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: The General Scott, 1 Scott Circle, Washington, D.C.

194 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

EPES DIXWELL CHASE

  

  

HOME AbprEss: 275 Hurlbutt St., Wilton, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ibee Packing Co., 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1947,

MARRIED: Mary Elizabeth Anderson, Dec. 22, 1940, CHILDREN: Carl Alfred, Dec. 24,
1941; Arria Dixwell, June 15, 1945; Eric Anderson, June 29, 1946; Peter
Augustus, March 20, 1950; Elizabeth Philippa, Aug. 24, 1951; Johanna Put.
nam, Sept. 13, 1953; George Anderson, Nov. 30, 1955,

HARVARD SON: Carl Alfred Chase, ’64.

OCCUPATION: Procurement, fisheries.

News work, eight years. Operated boat yard, twelve years. Presently
travel for tuna packing firm m connection with procurement.

IRVING HANSON CHASE

  

HOME ADDRESS: Fairhaven Hill, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Henry Thayer Co., 1430 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge 38, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R.L.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGKEE: 8.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Mary Richards Long, July 7, 1940 (divorced 1946); Anne Osborne
(Crane), Feb. 14, 1947. cHitoren: Jonathan Cheney, Aug. 31, 1942; Warren
Stockbridge, Feb. 18, 1948; Helen Osborne, July 20, 1949; Edith Elliott, Jan.
13, 1953; Henry Allison, Sept. 2, 1953 (died Oct. 5, 1953); Lucy Carey and
Mary Devens (twins), April 21, 1955.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 195

occuPATION: President, Henry Thayer Company, manufacturers of food and drug
products.

OFFICES HELD: Director, General Microfilm Company, since 1947, Concord Chap-
ter, American National Red Cross, 1954-57; vice-president, Quantitest Chemi-
cal Corporation, since 1954; president, Brooks School of Concord, Inc., 1956-

59, Nashoba Country Day School, since 1959, Mental Health Association of
Gentral Middlesex, Inc., since 1962.

MEMBER OF: First Parish in Concord (Unitarian); Navy League of the United
States; Chetolah Yacht Club; Concord Country Club.

The end of this quarter-century finds me busy with a large family, a
small business, some community responsibility and as much sailing as I
can crowd into an active schedule. My house looks west over the Sud-
bury River, my office looks east over Harvard Square and I look on
life with considerable pleasure,

The U.S. Navy allowed me two years after graduation, during which I
studied at MLT,, and worked in Pittsburgh. My five years of active
duty were interesting and included service in the Atlantic, Mediterranean
and Pacific areas. Following release from duty in 1946, I was active in the
Naval Reserve, retiring in the rank of rear admiral in 1959.

My business has progressed i in pace with inflation and ever-increasing
family wants. This is a consumer products manufacturing enterprise
whose growth is governed by my limitations, and I find this challenging
and agreeable.

The leavening in these years has been my family which is in a constant
state of mostly-cheerful confusion. With one son in the Marine Corps
and one in a boarding school, I am at home keeping peace among my
bride and four daughters. We have graduated from diapers to “You
don’t understand.”

I shall debate instantly with anyone who thinks (1) the solution to
all the problems of the world is more government spending, (2) we
were correct in dropping the bomb on Hiroshima, or (3) there is a
better place to cruise in summer than in Maine.

JOHN LeROY CHASE

 

HOME apprEss: 903 Chalfonte Drive, Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE AppREsS: U.S. Office of Education, Dept. of Health, Education & Welfare.
Washington, D.C,

PREPARED AT: Tully Central School, Tully, N-Y.

196 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1939; A.M., 1940; Pry
(Princeton Univ.), 1952.

marrizD: Helen L. Hayden, 1943 (divorced 1951); Nancy Jones Turner, Nov. 1
1953. cuitpren: Jonathan Mayhew, Dec. 9, 1946; Jeremy Hayden, June
1948; Robert James, March 30, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Specialist for Graduate Education and chief, Arts & Sciences Sectio:
Division of Higher Education, U.S. Office of Education.

MEMBER OF: American Political Science Association.

PuBLicaTions: Doctoral Study, U.S. Government publication, 1961; numerou
other shorter pieces, e.g., “The Numbers Game in Graduate Education,” Pro
ceedings of Midwest Conference on Graduate Study and Research, 1963.

Following 1940, when I received my A.M. from Harvard, I began a
career in high school and college teaching, which was interrupted by a
year and a half of service in the War Department and a year in the
Foreign Service (in England, France and Germany). Then to graduate
school at Princeton and work for a doctorate in political science. From
1950 to 1953, I was assistant professor of political science at Brown
University; then served as associate professor at the University of North
Carolina, Louisiana State University and Indiana University, with one
year out for postdoctoral work at Princeton. During two summers I
also did postdoctoral work at the University of Denver and the State
University of lowa.

In 1958 I came to the U.S. Office of Education, first as specialist for
graduate fellowships, then as specialist for the social sciences, and since
September, 1960, as specialist for graduate education, in which capacity
I am responsible for conducting research and serving in an advisory
capacity on all matters relating to graduate education in the United
States. In the past three years I have visited our two dozen major
graduate schools around the country. I much enjoy my work and living
in suburban Washington.

MYRON LEON CHASE

 

HOM. appress: 1005 Seven Oaks Lane, Mamaroneck, N.Y.

orrice avoness: Luria Brothers & Co., Inc. 161 £. 42d St., New York 17, N.Y.

PREPAKED at: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YAKS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Sylvia Luntz, Jan. 19, 1943. cHitpREN: Carol Ann, Dec. 2, 1945; Stephen
Harris, Dec. 28, 1948.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 19°

occupation: Vice-president in charge of international operations, Luria Brothes
& Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: U.S. Commerce Department Executive Reserve, present; lieutenar
commander, USNR, 1939-45; vice-president, Luntz Iron & Steel Compan:
Canton, Ohio, 1945-56; special consultant, Economic Cooperation Administra
tion, 1948-51; president, Institute of Scrap Iron & Steel, 1958-59; assistar
to the president, Luria Brothers & Company, Inc., since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Quaker Ridge Golf Club, Scarsdale, N.Y.; Harvard Club of New York

After graduation from Harvard in °39, served in the U.S. Navy fo
five and a half years (during which time I married Sylvia Luntz),

When the war was over, settled down in Canton, Ohio, with the Lunt
Iron & Steel Company. From 1948 through 1951, I had the opportunity t.
participate in several iron and steel scrap surveys in Europe for the Com
merce Department and the State Department. I have been active in th
Institute of Scrap Iron & Steel, the industry’s national trade associatior
and served as its president in 1958 and 1959.

1 always had a feeling that I would prefer living in the East and i:
1956 had the opportunity to join Luria Brothers as assistant to the presi
dent. Since moving to Mamaroneck, New York, have enjoyed sailin.
in the Sound and being able to swim from our beach and see the Nev
York skyline. Most of my hobbies have centered around squash, tennis
golf and sailing. Do find time for some reading and manage to take ad
vantage of the theatre in New York.

Have a daughter and a son; Carol, who was valedictorian of her clas
and who is now a freshman at Smith College; Stephen, who is :
sophomore in high school and who I hope will be able to go to Har-
vard.

As head of the International Division for the company, I take frequent
trips to Europe and, occasionally, to Japan. I enjoy the traveling anc
especially the many contacts with people in other countries.

ROBERT WEBSTER CHASE

   

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 20 Fairway Lane, Littleton, Colo.

PREPARED AT: Hebron Academy, Hebron, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937, 1940-1942. DEGREE: s.B., 1939(42).

marniep: Alene I. Adair, Aug. 12, 1950. cHttpren: Richard A. and David W.
(twins), March 25, 1955,

OccuPaTION: Oil business; independent operator.

198 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

MEMBER OF: American Association of Petroleum Geologists; Colorado Consistory
No. 1, A.&AS.R.; Rocky Mountain Harvard Club; Columbine Country

Club.

Marcus Aurelius Antoninus wrote, “Life is more like wrestling than
dancing; it must be ready to keep its feet against all onsets however
unexpected.” So it has been with me. ;

In 1962 after sixteen years of corporate life, eleven with Gulf Oil
Corporation and five with Midwest Oil Corporation, I embarked upon
the career of an independent oil operator. In this fascinating, many-
faceted petroleum industry the search for new oil and gas reserves
is the prime factor for the economic growth of a company or an indi-
vidual. Only a very few businesses have so many decisions under
uncertainty for success as those involved in wildcat drilling ventures.
Such calculated risks may lead to financial ruin, modest profitability, or,
in some instances, accumulation of wealth. Exploring for oil and gas
requires creative geologic thinking, cash, experience, and luck, all in
quite sizable portions. The petroleum industry needs its inherent tax
advantages and the depletion allowance to sustain the energy needs
of this great nation. Speaking from experience, this is not the get-rich-
quick business portrayed in the movies, books and magazine articles.

Having lived in Venezuela, I believe in and realize the great poten-
tialities of the Peace Corps, the Alliance for Progress, and Western
Hemispheric solidarity. I think it will necessitate many years of educat-
ing and aiding the rural population of the South American nations
before the South Americans rid themselves of the extreme leftist
elements which are so dangerous to our common welfare. The United
States must focus greater attention on our South American neighbors
so richly endowed with the natural resources that will be most neces-
sary for the future growth of our country and this hemisphere.

Working as a petroleum engineer and as an exploration manager has
required much travel and many moves. My business career plus my
military service have offered me the opportunity to travel in twenty-
two foreign countries and forty-eight states. Since our marriage, we
have resided in Oklahoma, Michigan, Utah, Wyoming and Colorado.
Although I grew up in New England, I prefer the Rocky Mountain

Area with its mountainous beauty, spaciousness, cleanliness, sporting
facilities, hospitality and energy.

We now live in a small town eleven miles from Denver, and our
home is adjacent to the fifteenth fairway of a golf course. Therefore,
Alene, our twin sons Richard and David, aged eight, and I enjoy the
readily accessible facilities for golf, tennis, swimming and ice skating.

Over the years I have held minor offices in a few associations within
the petroleum industry, solicited money for the YMCA and the United
Fund, served on the town council, campaigned for the Republican
Party, and performed other modest civic duties.

In retrospect, the past twenty-five years have been very pleasant in
most aspects of living. Marrying a wonderful girl, gathering twin
sons, and becoming an independent oilman were my major accomplish-
ments, I sincerely hope that in the next twenty-five years I may con-
tribute much more to Harvard and to the benefit of mankind.

at hate acaie iene nieeniabi ee alll 1

Ot en

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 199

HENRY HOUSTON CHATFIELD

oo eo

  

HOME ApprREsS: 4400 Willow Hills Lane, Cincinnati 43, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 522 Dixie Terminal, Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; LLB,
1942 (46).

MARRIED: Margaret A. Rowe, Feb. 24, 1945. cHitpren: Helen Huntington, July 27,
1946; Charlton Henry, Aug. 9, 1947; George William, Feb. 25, 1950.

occuPpaATION: Lawyer, general practice.

MEMBER OF: Camargo; Queen City Club; Racquet Club; D.S.DI.

PAUL OAKES CHATFIELD

BARE FT SRT me naa

  

BORN: Nov, 13, 1917, Brooklyn, N.Y. Parents: Augustus Sherwood Chatfield,
Lilian Oakes.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; M.D. (Johns Hopkins
Univ.), 1943.

MARRIED: Rose Chatfield. cHILpREN: John; Laura.
pIED: Nov. 18, 1958, Philadelphia, Pa.

During World War II, Chatfield was a surgeon with the géth Army
Quartermaster Battalion in Europe. From 1946 through 1953 he was
assistant professor of physiology at Harvard Medical School and since
then had been assistant professor of neurology at Jefferson Medical
College in Philadelphia. He was survived by his wife and children.

200 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

DANIEL SARGENT CHEEVER

     
 
  

i Re BR EI a BSS

   

SSRs A

HOME apprEss: 521] Pembroke PI., Pittsburgh 32, Pa.

orrice appress: Graduate School of Public and International Affairs, University of
Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; a.m., 1947; PH.D., 1948.

marnrieD: Olivia Thorndike, Aug. 10, 1940 (died 1954); Mary Luce Bryant, Jan.
20, 1956. CHILDREN: Daniel Sargent, Jr., Nov. 20, 1942; Olivia Lowell, Nov.
25, 1944; Mary Helen, Jan. 22, 1950.

HARVARD SON: Daniel Sargent Cheever, Jr., 64.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of international affairs and political science,
Graduate School of Public and International Affairs and the faculty of liberal
arts, University of Pittsburgh.

OFFICES HELD: Faculty member, St. Mark’s School, 1939-42; deck officer, U.S.
Naval Reserve, 1942-45; U.S. Dept. of State, 1945-46; staff member, Foreign
Task Force of the Hoover Commission, 1948; faculty member, National War
College, 1950; Harvard University, 1948-61, as lecturer on government, Allston
Burr Senior Tutor of Winthrop House, director of University Alumni Affairs,
Special Research Assistant to the President; visiting professor, Fletcher
School of Law and Diplomacy, 1960-61; faculty, Seminar in American Studies,

Salzburg, Austria, 1959; member, board of directors, Unitarian-Universalist
Service Committee, since 1955; trustee, Milton Academy.

MEMBER OF: Commission to Study the Organization of Peace; American Political
Science Association; American Society of International Law.

PUBLICATIONS: Harvard and the Federal Government — A report to the faculty and
governing boards submitted by the president of the University, 1961; co-
author with H. F. Haviland, Jr., 41, Organizing For Peace, Houghton Mifflin,
Boston, 1954, and American Foreign Policy and the Separation of Powers,
Harvard University Press, 1952.

Twenty-five years in education intermixed with tours of duty in the
federal government have convinced me of Harvard’s pre-eminence. The
questions I hear are: Is our department as good as Harvard’s? Or, can
we get someone at Harvard to take this government contract? I am now
in my third year of teaching at the University of Pittsburgh, principally
in its new Graduate School of Public and International Affairs. Pitts-
burgh is thought to have an uncertain future which many leaders in
banking, industry and the University are determined to improve. A
nationally recognized university in the Ohio Valley working closely with
industry and city hall is expected to contribute new vitality to the area.
The example of Harvard and M.LT. in a reviving metropolitan area is
often cited. Education for international service is an important element

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 201

in the university’s development. Many of my students are already in
military or foreign service of one kind or another, and many are foreign
nationals with a solid representation from Asia and Africa. I, in turn,
will be studying the acuvities of the Organization for Economic Co-
operation and Development in Europe and East Africa (with the sup-
port of a Rockefeller Foundation Faculty Grant) for the three months
preceding our Reunion.

At Commencement time in 1939 my record at Harvard seemed so un-
distinguished that I was thoroughly depressed. I secured a good job,
however, at St. Mark’s School. I also had an anxious eye on that girl at
Radcliffe whom I was lucky enough to marry a little over a year later.
These two circumstances put study in a thoroughly different light. I
enrolled in summer school immediately after graduation and have been
studying ever since. I mention all this because Harvard College does
better now. An indifferent record is not always caused by indifference.
The problem was motivation— or perhaps values. It is plainly evident
that my son (Harvard senior) and daughters (Smith sophomore and
high school freshman) and their classmates make much more of their
opportunities today. Enthusiasm for study, as well as for athletics,
dramatics and song, is highly valued by nearly all in the present college
generation. I was at least in a position to have a first-hand view of these
changing attitudes during four or five years as one of the first Burr
Senior Tutors (Winthrop House). Assignments as a research assistant
to Mr. Pusey and in alumni relations taught me much about the govern-
ment and support of a private university. An opportunity to study the
relations between Harvard and the federal government held a special
interest for me. There was also enough time before leaving Harvard to
teach in the Government Department and to join with another Harvard
man in writing two books dealing with foreign policy and international
organization. The G.I. Bill had encouraged me to return to Harvard
for graduate study and I soon resigned from the State Department. I
have managed to stay fairly close to government, however, and en-
joyed a tour of duty as faculty member at the National War College in
Washington.

My naval career during World War II as a deck officer on sub-
chasers and landing craft m the South Atlantic and Caribbean was rel-
atively uneventful. I spent much of the war in Charleston, South Caro-
lina, which had an undeniable charm despite disconcerting social and
political attitudes. A turning point came with Navy orders to report
to the State Department for “duty in connection with” the UN Con-
ference at San Francisco. ‘This experience was extraordinary and kindled
a long-slumbering interest in foreign affairs which had not been gratified
by history teaching in secondary school. My immediate superior was the
conference secretary-general, Alger Hiss, with whom I continued to
work in the State Department after the conference in the branch that
was later to be called the Bureau of International Organization Affairs.
I do not pretend to understand fully the tragic events of the 1930’s that
later led to Hiss’s conviction for perjury, In the years 1945 and 1946 he
was an intensely devoted and effective government official,

Iam a board member of the Unitarian- Universalist Service Committee,
Inc., and also participate in the work of the denomination itself.

202 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

I have registered as a Republican, a Democrat and an Independent a
one time or another. I stand four-square behind the Harvard men or
the “new frontier” despite some obvious disappointments.

My career has been rewarding. In the final analysis, however, the mos:
satisfactory part of life has been domestic happiness despite whatever
sadnesses have occurred. My wife and I sing when we can, usually in <
choir. Both of us delight in nature and should soon qualify as bird
watchers.

I am lucky enough to be writing this account on a fall weekend with
one eye cocked on the brilliant colors surrounding the blue waters of
Buzzards Bay. A rod is leaning against the cottage door — just in case
the “blues” should swirl— my skis are waiting for the winter —a son
and a daughter and their college friends are expected for a “cook-out”
supper. “Who could ask anything more?”

 
   
 

EDMOND LA BEAUME CHERBONNIER

rm

     

 

HOME ADpRESS: 843 Prospect Ave., West Hartford 5, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Religion, Trinity College, Hartford 6, Conn.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pECREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; B.p. (Union Theologi-
cal Sem.), 1947; 3.4. (Cambridge Univ., England), 1948; pu.p. (Columbia
Univ.), 1951; m.a. (Cambridge Univ., England) , 1952.

MARRIED: Phyllis White, Oct. 14, 1943. cHitpren: Laurie Goodwin, June 30, 1951;
Camden La Beaume, July 17, 1956.

occupation: Professor of religion, chairman of Department of Religion, Trinity
College.

OFFICES HELD: Teacher of Latin, Avon Old Farms School, 1940-41; assistant pro-
fessor of religion, Vassar College, 1950-51; assistant professor, associate pro-

fessor, Barnard College, lecturer, Union Theological Seminary, 1951-55;
associate professor, 1955-57, professor of religion, since 1955, Trinity College.

MEMBER OF: National Council on Religion and Higher Education; Society of
Biblical Theologians; National Association of Biblical Instructors; Ausable
Club, St. Huberts, New York.

pustications: Hardness of Heart, 1955; “The Logic of Biblical Anthropomor-
phism,” Harvard Theological Review, July, 1962; “Is There A Biblical Meta-
physic?”, Theology Today, January, 1959; “Biblical Faith and the Idea of
Tragedy.” The Tragic Vision and the Christian Faith, Nathan A. Scott, ed.,
1957; chapter entitled “The Word of God in Professor Wieman’s Theology,”
The Theology of Henry N. Wieman, Kegiey and Bretall, eds., Library of
Living Theology, Vol. 4, 1963,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 203

Twenty-five years ago, our Senior Album listed the intended vocation
of the members of the graduating class. It is going to be interesting to
compare those prognostications with the present pursuits of one’s class-
mates. For myself, I well remember one morning in June, 1939, when I
took the last of my final examinations, The remainder of the day and
evening were spent in celebration of what | thought would surely be my
last encounter with the torments of the academic world.

Little did I suspect that dozens of final examinations still lay ahead.
After serving as a naval aviator during the war, I found myself embarked
upon a study of philosophy and religion, which lasted six years, in this
country and abroad. Before it was over, I began to wonder whether my
education had been as long deferred as Henry Adams’.

My student days finally came to an end with a teaching post at an old
Harvard stamping ground, Vassar— though by that time, my under-
graduate interests had become somewhat tempered by matrimony. The
next stop was New York, at Barnard and Columbia. Finally, I came to
Trinity College, in Hartford, where I have been for the past eight years
—-near enough to Boston to attend an occasional football game at
Harvard Stadium.

My wife and I have two children, aged twelve and seven. The four
of us are all fond of sports and travel, which makes for at least a degree
of domestic harmony, a kind of satisfaction which would surely have
mystified me as an undergraduate. Such a conventional ending is a far

cry from my more exotic plans in 1939, which were, if memory serves,
to become a beachcomber.

GEORGE MORRIS CHESTON

    

HOME ADDRESS: Wynnewood, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1905 Fidelity-Philadelphia Trust Bldg., Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED aT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; LL.B., 1942(47).

MARRIED: Winifred D. Seyburn, May 5, 1955. cHiLp: Sidney, July 26, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Attorney and trustee.

OFFICES HELD: President, Pennsylvania Society to Protect Children; vice-president,
Lyric Opera Company; member, board of governors, Philadelphia Museum of

Art; member, board of directors, Foreign Affairs Council; trustee, United
Fund.

204 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Club; Racquet Club; State in Schuylkill; Rabbitt Club
Gulph Mills Golf Club; Brook Club.

After graduating from college I entered the Harvard Law School
departing after two years for the Navy, and entering that service under
what was known as the V-7 program. This resulted in several years as
a deck officer in three ships and ended with several months of extremely
interesting duty with the North China command after the end of the
Japanese war.

After a suitably lengthy and frivolous holiday, I returned to Cam-
bridge for the third year of the Law School course, proceeding after
graduation to the Pennsylvania bar and practice in Philadelphia. After
a few years working at most of the usual forms of the practice of law
for a large firm and a few more as a rather unsuccessful manufacturer,
1 found myself directing more and more time to various charitable, civic
and political organizations, acting during 1955-56 as treasurer of the
National Citizens for Eisenhower Committee.

1 manage to keep reasonably fit playing some golf and tennis and try
to get in a little sailing each year, having owned at one time a small
auxiliary yawl. My wife and I have taken a skiing trip almost every win-
ter, and 1 hope very much to continue this pleasant custom, although
her enthusiasm for it is now perhaps not as great as mine. We both very
much enjoy travel abroad. Recently we have been doing a little racing
and breeding of horses and plan to increase our efforts in that direction
—an activity which, if seldom lucrative, never fails to reward us with
enormous pleasure,

DAVID WHITTLESEY CHILDS

    
 

   

HOME aADpRESS: 6740 Pennsylvania, Kansas City, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: David W. Childs, Inc., 206 Hanover Bldg. 15 W. Tenth St., Kan-
sas City, Mo.

PREPARED AT: Southwest High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREES: a.B., 1939; miB.a., 1941.

MARRIED: Mariska Pugsley, Feb. 27, 1944. cuitp: David Whittlesey, 2d, Oct. 20,
1947,

OccUPATION: President, David W. Childs, Inc., real estate and insurance.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1948, vice-president, 1949, president, 1950, Harvard Club
of Kansas City; commander, David W. Kemper Post, American Legion, 1949;
director, Real Estate Board of Kansas City (twice elected), 1957-62.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 205

MEMBER OF: Kansas City Country Club; University Club; Kansas City Advertis-
ing and Sales Executive Club.

Served in U.S. Navy, 1942-45; lieutenant commander in Retired
Reserve; served twenty months on USS Libra and eighteen months
on USS Baxter. In 1945 was executive officer of the USS Baxter. USS
Libra received Naval Unit Citation.

BUSINESS: Real estate and insurance business since 1946. Treasurer
of Kansas City Real Estate Board in 1962. Governing Counsel of Insti-
tute of Real Estate Management. President, Kansas City Chapter, So-
ciety of Real Estate Appraisers.

POLITICAL: Twelve years member of the Kansas City Board of
Zoning Adjustment and presently serving as chairman. Republican
Committeeman, 1950-52. Treasurer, Young Republicans, 1950, Jackson
County Republican Committee, 1958. Unsuccessful candidate for Pre-
siding Judge of Jackson County (the office in which President Truman
started his career), 1958. Several times delegate to Republican State
Conventions.

DRAMATICS: Since 1958 have acted with Resident Theatre, Uni-
versity of Kansas City Playhouse, Lyric Theatre, Tomahawk Players
and the Barn Players. Served as director of Barn Players from 1959,
served as treasurer three times and was president of Barn Players, Inc.,
in 1960. Directed first play in summer of 1963.

Listed in Who’s Who In The Midwest.

PAUL THEODORE CHOATE —

SBE On esteem mameponteaes: %

  
  
 

 

 

HOME AppREss: 1811 Forest Drive, Camden, S.C.

OFFICE appREsS: Kendall Co.; Bethune, S.C.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence Academy, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: S.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Genevieve M. Goudie, Aug. 2, 1941. cHmpreN: Culver Paul, July 31,
1943; Nancy Jean, March 23, 1946; David Malcolm, June 29, 1951.

OCCUPATION; Textiles; superintendent, Bethune Plant, Kendall Company.

MEMBER OF: Twirly Bird Club; Kershaw County Chamber of Commerce; Cam-
den Country Club; Camden Swim Club.

Started in textile manufacturing in July, 1939, and have been with the
Kendall Company ever since, with the exception of the war years, 1942-

206 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

46, when I served as an Air Force pilot. Quit Military Science in college
after one year and that was a mistake!

The drift of New England textiles to the South caught up with me ir
1956, and we have spent the last seven years adjusting to this midland
Carolina area. Living in a residential area where the majority are largely
duPonters coming in and going out helps me keep a reasonable per-
spective.

The main hurdle ahead is to get the kids through college and to hope
the pocketbook survives the drain during the years when two are in at
the same time. Culver is in his second year at Washington & Lee, a fine
school due to such strong faculty members as Classmate Ross Borden
(professor of English). Social fraternities dominate, however, and |
hope the trend started by Williams spreads to other small colleges.
Nancy goes off next year. At this point her preference seems to change
from day to day and she prefers not to solicit guidance from the “old
folks!” Then a short lull before David’s college decision, after which I
hope the family resources recoup in time to prepare for the “golden
years.”

WILLIAM LESLIE CLAF

  

\ ibaa oy a = taal eae Sie a Teo
oy
PO ’
: ia. 4
t }
t 3
,r3r é

  

) 5 —. ;
LAK

HOME Appress: 144 Austin St., Newtonville 60, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Office of the Dean, Harvard School of Public Health, 55 Shattuck
St. Boston 15, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.; New Preparatory School,
Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1938; M.B.A., 1941.
MARRIED: Beatrice Anteen, Aug. 17, 1941. cHILDREN: Leslie Suzanne, March 8,
1947; William Jonathan, March 26, 1953,
occupation: University administration; administrative assistant to the Dean of the
Faculty of Public Health, Harvard University; administration of business
affairs of the School, especially federal research grants and contracts.
OFFICES HELD: President, Harpur College Chapter, American Association of Uni-
versity Professors.
MEMBEK OF: Business Historical Society; Phi Beta Kappa.

 

After an M.B.A. at the Business School in 1941, married and off on a
teaching career at Brooklyn College, pursuing a Ph.D. at Columbia.
Military service in 1943 interrupted plans for the future until 1946 when
(Mrs.) Captain Claff, A.N.C. and (Mr.) Sergeant Claff were civilians

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 207

again. Back to the Business School to complete work on the D.CS.
except for the dissertation while Beatrice concentrated on our first born,
daughter Leslie Suzanne. Finances dictated finis to student days and we
three journeyed to Endicott, New York, for a nine-year, thoroughly
enjoyable experience in undergraduate teaching. The State University
of New York took over direction and financing of the college in 1950
and I participated in the founding and development of Harpur College,
the central and sole liberal arts unit of the new State University.
Reached the exalted rank of assistant professor and chairman of the
Department of Business Administration, built a small management con-
sulting practice in the area and spent several summers studying the
administrative workings and problems of the Medical Department
operated by the Endicott-Johnson Shoe Company and doing research in
the Engineering Services Division of IBM.

We were now four with the addition of William Jonathan. College
teaching had lost none of its fascination but had become a luxury I could
not afford. I accepted an invitation to become the first administrative
manager of Mount Sinai Medical Research Foundation and Blood Cen-
ter in Chicago and we went west to settle in the suburb of Downers
Grove. This was an opportunity to combine the practical side of ad-
ministration with the burgeoning field of medical research, education
and care. The stay in Chicago, 1956 to 1962, provided an opportunity
to learn about the midwest, to broaden my experience in administrative
and financial matters as well as to add new knowledge about the many
aspects of medical research, laboratory, blood bank and hospital ad-
ministration, medical education and associated para-medical fields. I
left the Research Foundation following a major reorganization of its
relationships with the hospital and its affiliated medical school and spent
two years managing commercial enterprises in the areas of blood bank-
ing, human plasma and serum, immunology and the development of
diagnostic clinical laboratory reagents.

In early 1962, when Dr. John C. Snyder, Dean of the Faculty of Public
Health at Harvard, invited me to join his staff, the triple attraction was
irresistible. Our wandering had convinced us that New England was a
fine place in which to raise and educate children, Harvard University is
the unquestioned leader of the academic community and here was a
unique opportunity to integrate and apply my experience in education,
management and medico-scientific administration. The prodigals have
returned from an interesting and rewarding journey in anticipation that
the best is yet to be.

208 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

CORBIN WHITFIELD CLARK

    

HOME appress: 76 Highland Ave., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: 845 Washington St., Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936, 1937-1938.

MARRIED: Gloria Schroeder, 1938 (divorced 1942); Virginia S. Andrews, March,
1951. cHiLpren: C. W. Herbert, March, 1941; Susan S., August, 1953; Linda
C., April, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Real estate and insurance.

Perhaps my first, and certainly the most lasting, interest has been
in real estate, since my association with the Walter Channing office
in Boston in 1939. Gathering clouds of war in 1940 changed my en-
deavors to the Oceanographic Institution at Woods Hole, Massachu-
setts. I joined the U.S. Coast Guard in 1943, spending several years
in most of the North Atlantic Area.

After the war I renewed my association with real estate in the Brook-
line and Newton offices of Whitney & Whitney. Opening my own
office in 1948, I shortly thereafter branched out into the insurance busi-
ness — all of which brings us to the present.

We spend our summers on the North Shore, which gives us all a change
and exposes the children to the pleasures of the country and seashore
combined, a perfect tranquilizer for my wife and myself, making more
remote the pace of the frantic world we live in.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 209

IRWIN CLARK

    

HOME ADDRESS: Will Lane, Watchung, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, 630
W. 168th St., New York 32, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; pH.p. (Columbia Univ.), 1950.
MARRIED: Alice Miriam Giese, Feb. 18, 1948. curupREN: Gail Lynn, Sept. 29, 1949;

Wendy Jeanne, April 13, 1951; Jeffrey Lee, April 1, 1954; Adam Peter, Feb.
19, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of biochemistry, College of Physicians and Sur-
geons, Columbia University.

MEMBER OF: A.A.A.S.; American Chemical Society; American Federation of
Clinical Research; American Institute of Nutrition;; American Society of
Biological Chemists; Biochemical Society, England; Endocrinology Society;
New York Academy of Sciences (fellow); Phi Lambda Upsilon; Radiation
Research Society; Sigma Xi; Society of Experimental Biology and Medicine.

PUBLICATIONS: Approximately thirty scientific articles on biochemistry and en-
docrinology.

Desirous of getting away from the East for a time, the year following
graduation was spent as a graduate student in chemistry at the Uni-
versity of Michigan. Fed up with scholastic pursuits, the next year was
spent in the merchant marine. Out of work, following a seaman’s strike
in Boston, I accepted a job as a technician at the Harvard Medical School
where I remained a year and then accgpted a technical job at the Merck
Institute for Therapeutic Research, Rahway, New Jersey. Designated
4-F by the draft, remained at the Merck Institute doing defense research
work until 1947, Returned to graduate school at the College of Physicians
and Surgeons, Columbia University, where I received a Ph.D. in bio-
chemistry under Professor David Rittenberg in 1950. With new wife,
new degree and new baby, went to Cambridge, England, as a Senior
Fulbright Scholar for sixteen months. Despite the austerity program
which was still underway had a lovely time and am now a complete
Anglophile. While there had the pleasure of watching Harvard win in
the Henley Regatta. Returned to the Merck Institute in 1952 to do re-
search work and remained there until January, 1959.

Unhappy about the trend toward conformity and mediocrity, left
industry for an academic position in the Biochemistry Department at the
College of Physicians and Surgeons, Columbia University, where I am
presently situated. Have been very happy with this move despite

. ceetatiadteenan ee anne in
a

ete eg 7 ——_

210 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

financial loss and a greatly increased work load. Most of my time is
spent on research work and the remainder is devoted to teaching which
I find more and more enjoyable each year, although at first I was petri-
fied at the thought of it and while doing it. I often wonder if I was as
cocksure and brash after graduating from college as first-year medical
students seem to be, Have been fortunate in being able to travel a fair
amount, and after spending about two weeks in the U.S.S.R. am most
rateful to my parents for having had the foresight to be Americans.

Politically, 1 am an independent and have voted both for Democrats
and Republicans. My choice at times was based on which candidate was
the “lesser of two evils.” In social affairs am in favor of integration,
medicare, conservation and those programs which benefit the less
fortunate. Ironically, those organizations whose spokesmen are most
vocal against “creeping socialism” are the ones which practice it most
extensively. Big business and industry routinely entice prospective em-
plovees with fringe benefits and promises of care almost from the
“cradle to the grave,” at the same time their leaders denounce the govern-
ment for attempting to do the same thing.

My pet peeves at the moment are: the large impersonal discount houses
and shopping centers, the “‘Jeaders” in business, science and religion who
suddenly become political scientists and statesmen and who have no
qualms about making public pronouncements about matters of which
they are completely ignorant; the Red Sox for doing so poorly the last
dozen years; and commuting to New York City three hours a day.

Reasonably physically fit, enjoy golfing, fishing, gardening, drinking
and this year have taken up water skiing which is a lot of fun. Read and

listen to music a great deal.
At present am happy with wife, family and work.

JOHN WILLIAM CLARK +

 

LAST MAILING avoness: R.F.D. 3, Great Barrington, Mass,

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 211

pn

   

 

MILLS GARDNER CLARK

HOME ADDRESS: 707 Mitchell St., Ithaca, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Middletown High School, Middletown, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m. (Univ.
of Minnesota), 1942; a.m. (Harvard Univ.), 1947; pup. (ibid.), 1950.

MARRIED: Florence Adams, Aug. 20, 1949. cHipREN: Elizabeth, Dec. 29, 1950;
Crandall, May 14, 1954; Carolyn, May 4, 1957.

OccUPATION: Professor of economics and industrial relations, Cornell University.

PUBLICATIONS: Economics of Soviet Steel, Harvard University Press, 1956.

I like to travel and work in Europe. Since graduation I have spent
five years in Italy. In 1963 I spent eight months abroad with my family:
two months skiing in Davos, Switzerland, three months in Italy, one
month in France, one month in the USSR and two weeks in Poland.
Teaching has many “fringe benefits.” Teaching at Cornell is satisfying
and pleasant.

ALDEN CLARK

|

 
  
 

 

ie

ich tah cl ei tis tit

 

 

Lab iis dy taste alidei

 

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Maxwell Ct., Morristown, N.J.

OFFICE appREss: Sports Illustrated, Time & Life Bldg., Rockefeller Center, New
York 20, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Western Reserve Academy, Hudson, Ohio,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE! S.B., magna eum laude, 1939,

212 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

MARRIED: Joan Howson, April 18, 1943, CHILDREN: Roger, June 5, 1946; Juliet.
Sept. 14, 1948; David, Oct. 6, 1950; Benjamin, Sept. 11, 1954.

occuPaTION: Publishing; copywriter.

oFFices HELD: Business manager, Thomasville (N.C.) Dodgers, 1946, Nashua
(N.H.) Dodgers, 1947; president and general manager, Newport News (Va.)
Dodgers, 1948-50; purchasing agent and assistant to Vice-president Bavasi,
Brooklyn Dodgers, 1951-54; general manager, Elmira (N.Y.) Dodgers, 1953,

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: “A copywriter is a ghost writer.”

With Cleveland Press, NBC and Newsweek, June, 1940, to April, 1941;
in service, from Field Artillery to Air Force, from private to captain,
April, 1941, to February, 1946; with Brooklyn Dodgers, 1946-54; with
Sports Illustrated, since 1954. ;

My convictions, which I can not unfailingly apply: social — the golden
rule; political — Democrat; religious — agnostic. Son Roger is a fresh-
man at Rutgers.

arena gms erence

EDWIN RICHARDS CLARKE

   

  

HOME AbprEss:; 588 Gulph Rd., Wayne, Pa.

OFFICE appRESs: American Meter Co., Inc., 13500 Philmont Ave., Philadelphia 16,
Pa.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

marRieD: Elizabeth Allin, Sept. 24, 1941, cHtpREN: Marjorie Ann, Feb. 25, 1943;
Peggy Elizabeth, Sept. 2, 1944; Edwin Richards, 3d, Nov. 24, 1946.

occuPaTION: Director of personnel and industrial relations, American Meter Com-
pany, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Industrial Relations Association of Philadelphia; American Manage-
ment Association; Harvard Club of Philadelphia; M.I.T. Club of the Dele-

ware Valley; Valley Forge Civic Association; Martin’s Dam Club; Cynwyd
Club; Riverview Lodge No. 717, F. & A.M.

The years since 1939 have been crowded. Progress in a business career
and educating a family have been the dominant concerns. Many changes
in residence have taken place. Through it all a fine family of two
daughters and a son have been raised and are now being guided through
college. In addition, there has been a succession of the experiences that
make life worth while: family vacations, honors for the children, friend-

ships old and new, and a growing appreciation of being a graduate of
Harvard.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 213

At graduation my objective was a business career although my ideas
were far from specific. Having finally settled into the field of industrial
relations, I can say that it has proved challenging and rewarding. It has
been a satisfaction to work in one of modern industry’s newest special-
ties. I know now that graduate study would have been an asset to me.

World War II took nearly five years away from my pursuit of the
business career. Not that the military experiences were valueless. The
included a teaching assignment at the Field Artillery School, Fort Sill,
Oklahoma, where | found a bride, and troop duty in Europe for eight-
een months including sojourns in England, Wales, France, Belgium,
Luxembourg, and Germany. The battles of Normandy and the Bulge
were my most exciting episodes in combat military operations which
lasted from July, 1944, to V-E Day. I served the last half of the
European campaign as operations officer of the 174th Field Artillery
Group, VIII Corps. On V-E Day we were in Saxony close to the
Czechoslovakian frontier.

Since industry had little or no respect for experience gained in military
Operations, it was necessary to start at the beginning again when I re-
sumed the business career in 1946. Industrial engineering for Goodyear
at St. Mary’s, Ohio, led to industrial relations for the same company in
Muncie, Indiana, and at Goodyear Aircraft in Akron, Ohio. The United
Rubber Workers and the United Auto Workers gave me comprehensive
experience in grievances, arbitration, contract negotiations, and strikes,
wildcat as well as legitimate. 1 came to feel that lack of mutual under-
standing and confidence between labor and management was the key
problem in the field of labor-management relations. My subsequent
practice in the field has strongly emphasized two-way communication
and two-way integrity. Since I believe that American industrial genius
is the foundation of our present way of life, 1 have concentrated on con-
veying to unions and employees how they should act to preserve our sys-
tem. In 1955 I took the position of director of industrial relations at the
Dayton Rubber Company, Dayton, Ohio, and in 1958 1 moved to Phila-
delphia as director of personnel and industrial relations for American
Meter Company, a leading international multi-plant corporation engaged
in manufacture and sale of measurement and control devices for gas,
water, industrial liquids and petroleum.

Living in the Philadelphia area during the children’s high school years
has been good for their education as well as enjoyable for all of us. We
enjoy our Valley Forge home and the unlimited recreational and cul-
tural opportunities that exist. We like the proximity to the metropolitan
centers of the East and the ability to have more frequent contacts with
Harvard. Moreover, the children have been motivated toward eastern
colleges. Marjorie spent two happy years in New England at Colby
Junior College before transferring in the fall of 1963 as a junior to seek
a degree in elementary education at Ohio Wesleyan University. Peggy
is a sophomore at Mount Holyoke College with thoughts of majoring in
mathematics. Edwin, 3d (Ned), now leading his class as a high school
senior, won the Harvard Prize Book last spring. He is planning to get a
technical education and will probably apply at Harvard, Yale, and
Brown. We think the years ahead will be less crowded. We look for-
ward to more frequent visits to Harvard and contacts with other ’39ers.

214 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HOWARD FRANCIS CLINE

SANS AEE ESTE ATS

at :

   

HOME ApDpRESS: 170] N. Patrick Henry Drive, Arlington 5, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hispanic Foundation, Library of Congress, Washington 25, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Thomas Jefferson High School, Elizabeth, NJ.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREES: 8.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1942;
PHD., 1947.

MARRIED: Mary A. Wilson, June 14, 1941. cuiprenN: Ann Elizabeth, March 31,
1945; Sue Louise, Nov. 21, 1948.

occupation: Government official; historian; director, Hispanic Foundation, Li-
brary of Congress.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Conference on Latin American History, 1964; other offices,
see Who’s Who in America.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa.
PUBLICATIONS: The United States and Mexico, Harvard, 1953; Mexico: Revolution

to Evolution, 1940-1960, Oxford, 1962; about forty professional articles;
seventy-five book reviews.

When we were collectively debouched into the adult world in June,
1939, the unexpected award of a Sheldon Prize Fellowship deferred for
a few months my working, as well as delaying marriage awhile. I was
scheduled to live on a Hungarian estate and then to shoot reindeer in
Finland, but the outbreak of what our National Archives calls ‘““The
European War” deflected these absurd plans. Hence, I went to Cuba and
Mexico where I worked a little for the Mexican government when funds
ran low. Originally I had aimed to visit Ecuador to learn why they had
so many revolutions; twenty-five years later I still do not know, although
1 can tell you that around the airport at Quito the clouds are filled with

rocks,

On return from the Sheldon I did shift my interests from United
States history to Latin American matters. During an interlude of about
a year my new bride and I lived in a rather remote Chinantec Indian
village in Mexico, sharing a Social Science Research Council grant built
for one. My Mexican adventures had unfitted me for military service, so
I did the next best thing — became a dean. With the Yard teeming with
uniforms I was a lone civilian and had several unlikely offices: assistant
dean, assistant counselor for veterans, registrar, even instructor, When
the pros came back I quietly picked up a doctorate in history and went

bravely off to Yale to profess, with a shiny new degree, high hopes, and a
1932 Ford.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 215

The New Haven episode was short and frustrating. Despite the fact
that Evanston, Illinois, is the national headquarters of the W.C.T.U,, 1
accepted (in 1949) an offer to join Northwestern University’s History
Department; their assurances that social and intellectual life on Chicago’s
North Shore was not seriously blighted by the juxtaposition of frown
and gown proved true. We enjoyed Northwestern and reluctantly left
the area in 1952.

Succumbing to Washington gold, I beat the Republicans to the capital
by a month, Since then I have been an academic type in government, at
about the fifth echelon, where McCarthyism, black Homburg hats, and
the Bay of Pigs all are passing phenomena. The last dozen years have
been exciting and rewarding. In addition to widely varied official re-
sponsibilities related to thirty or forty countries (the number changes
more frequently these days), I steal a little time to read some books and
occasionally to write some. I envy no man.

In addition to her duties as housewife, mother, and general factotum,
my wife, Mary, keeps our household tranquil. We try to live a quiet
suburban existence beset by crabgrass and increasing local civil obliga-
tions. We have made some progress since New Haven; I drive the 1949
Ford I purchased in Illinois and she has the newer one, the 1950 Ford.
This used to disgust our teen-age daughters until they learned this is a
reverse status symbol. But we understand these cars. Among her spare-
time duties, Mary also edits my unruly prose. When I asked her how to
respond to the embarrassing request to provide an autobiographical
sketch for the edification of the Class she said to make it solemn and
factual. And so it is.

RAY STEINER CLINE

 

HOME apopress: 4607 N. 41st St., Arlington, Va. 22207.

OFFICE appress: Central Intelligence Agency, Langley, Va.

PREPARED AT: Wiley High School, Terre Haute, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1941;
PH.D, 1949,

MARRIED: Marjorie Wilson, June 4, 1941, CHILDREN: Judith May, Dec. 5, 1946;
Sibyl Wilson, March 8, 1948.

occupation: Deputy director (Intelligence), Central Intelligenee Agency, Wash-
ington, D.C., government service.

OFFICES HELD; Intelligence assignment with U.S, Navy, 1942-43; chief of Intelli-

216 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

gence Staff, Office of Strategic Services, 1943-46; research and writing ¢
military planning of World War II, Dept. of Army, 1946-49; chief of Est
mates Staff, Central Intelligence Agency, September, 1949, to October, 195]
attaché of Embassy, London, October, 1951, to October 1953; chief of Sin
Soviet Bloc Staff. Central Intelligence Agency, 1953-57; member, U.S. Delegs
tion “Summit” Four Power Heads of State Conference, Geneva, Switzerlanc
1955; director, U.S. Naval Auxiliary Communication Center, Taipei, Taiwar
1958-62; deputy director (Intelligence), Central Intelligence Agency, sinc
1962.

PUBLICATIONS: Washington Command Post (US, Army in World War ID

US.G.P.0., 1951.

The best thing I acquired at Harvard is my lovely wife, a Simmons
girl, born and bred in New England near Boston, whom I found in
Widener Library and married in the Harvard Chapel twenty-two years
ago. The next best thing I got out of my Harvard years was a feeling
that it is fun to learn new facts and ideas about people and the world
they live in. Finally, I discovered that there is a good deal of satisfaction
in skilfully expressing to others what you have been able to learn about
something of general interest. These three simple things have stood by
me well over the years, giving shape and content to my private and

professional life.
Thanks to scholarships and fellowships at Harvard and Oxford, it be-
came clear to me that it was possible to get paid money for doing what
I wanted to do anyway; that is, acquiring knowledge and communicating
it once learned. Originally it seemed to me that teaching at the university
level would be the way to pull off this financial trick over the long haul,
but World War II plunged me into OSS and the business of learning
and writing about foreign developments affecting the United States.
This also provided cash income and, in the post-war years, presented
opportunities for extensive overseas travel, including foreign residence
for considerable periods of time in England, 1951-53, and in Taiwan
(Free China), 1958-62.

My government service broadened as time went on, including stints
under the auspices of the Army, Navy, the Foreign Service, and the.
Executive Offices of the White House, so it is not illogical that I have
ended up as Deputy Director in the Central Intelligence Agency, where
I am responsible for supervising a sizable staff of scholars and experts in
evaluating and analyzing developments abroad which affect the strategic
interests and national security of the United States. In many ways it

isn’t very different from the academic career I visualized twenty-odd

years ago, except that my monographs and books tend to be on lively
current topics and they get published for benefit of a limited clientele of
readers made up of the President and his national security advisers. The
secrecy which surrounds this kind of writing and staff work requires an
acceptance of anonymity and lack of public recognition that is sometimes

frustrating, but this is offset by the satisfaction that comes from having a

rather select captive audience and feeling that what one is able to Jearn

and communicate at this level of the government may help a little in
constructing a reasonable American posture in world affairs.

My last thought about the relevance of my education to my work is
that the broad liberal arts approach, which in my case led me from the
history of ideas into the history of governmental and national institu-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 217

tions, was an excellent preparation for the varied intellectual pursuits I
have found the United States Government willing to subsidize, I began
as a British affairs specialist, which I had some qualifications for, but
shifted rapidly to other area interests as the market for knowledge de-
manded. For several years I studied how strategic decisions were reached
in the United States Government during World War II, and this proj-
ect turned into a historical study, the only one of countless research
tasks undertaken which I was able to publish as a book available to any
interested reader. Afterwards, | turned my major attention to how the
Soviet Union makes strategic decisions, and what kind of decisions they
are, and subsequently to the same subjects as related to the Chinese Com-
munist regime in Peking, What I have been able to learn about Asia and
Chinese history and culture in particular has afforded me the most re-
warding intellectual satisfaction in my whole life so far. In any case, it
is easy to see how these particular fields of study caused me to end up in
Washington in intelligence at a time when the Sino-Soviet relationships
are at a fascinating point of evolution and when the outcome ts of pri-
mary importance for American policy and security. I must say my
Harvard education did not consciously point or lead to where I am, but
it helped me develop the intellectual interests that make it comfortable
for me to be here and to enjoy trying to learn a little more of use and
pass it on to where it might do some good.

ALLEN WHITEHILL CLOWES

     

weisiiitaid tisieonatanacashincicubiadcnmcaaellaaedl

Bae &

HOME appRESS: 3744 Spring Hollow Rd., Indianapolis, Ind. 46208.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1008 Fletcher Trust Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind. 46204.

PREPARED AT: Park School, Indianapolis, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: s.B., cur laude, 1939; M.B.A., 1942.

UNMARRIED,

OCCUPATION: Investments; vice-president and treasurer, The Clowes Fund, Ine.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Dean Bros. Pumps, Inc. (Indianapolis), Leadville Lead
Corporation, Colorado Central Mines, both of Denver; vice-president and
treasurer, The Clowes Fund, Inc.; founder and past president, Avondale-in-
the-Meadows Playhouse, Inc.; director, Indianapolis Council on World Affairs,
since 1954, Episcopal Community Services, since 1961; trustee, Butler Uni-
versity (Indianapolis), since 1959, Indianapolis Symphony Orchestra, since
1951; director, Indianapolis Civie Ballet Company, since 1961; chairman,
Young Audiences (fine music in the schools), organized in 1961; president,

218 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Contemporary Club of Indianapolis, 1952-54; director, St. Richard’s Episcopal
Parochial Day School, since founding in 1960, Indianapolis Chamber of Com-
merce; director, Park School, since 1963; founder and director, Salt Pond
Area Bird Sanctuary, Falmouth, Woods Hole, Mass., since 1961; vice-presi-
dent and member, executive committee, Paul Rusch’s American Committee
for KEEP (Kiyosato Educational Experiment Project, Japan); member of
Vestry, Trinity Episcopal Church, 1952; lay delegate from Diocese of Indi-
anapolis to Episcopal General Convention, Boston, 1952; founder, treasurer
and director, Indiana Association of Mental Health, 1948-54; member, Build-
ings and Grounds Committee, Trmity Church new structure, 1951-53; mem-
ber, Department of Missions, Episcopal Diocese of Indianapolis, 1950-57.

MEMBER OF: John Herron Art Institute; English-Speaking Union; Harvard Club
of New York; Woodstock Club; University Club (since 1959); Indianapolis
Athletic Club; Contemporary Club; Harvard Club of Indiana (president,
1958-60) ; Historic Landmarks Foundation, Inc. (director of New York) ;
Traders Point Hunt Club; Indianapolis Literary Club (since 1953); Japan
Society (since 1958).

The writing of an autobiographical sketch for a quarter of a century
impels me to full discussion of my experiences and ideas but I shall
try to limit myself to a brief account of my life since graduation and
include only a minimum of personal philosophy.

My first year after graduation was spent in an executive training course
at Eli Lilly and Company, manufacturers of pharmaceuticals and biologi-
cals, Indianapolis. In September of 1940, I entered the Graduate School
of Business Administration of Harvard University whence I emerged
in June, 1942, with a Master’s degree in Business Administration and
joined the U.S. Naval Reserve as an ensign. After four relatively un-
dramatic, but extremely busy years in naval ordnance work, | was

returned to civil life with the rank of lieutenant, USNR, in April, 1946.

For two years I worked on Wall Street at Brown Brothers, Harriman
and Company as a security analyst. In April of 1948, I decided to
return to Indianapolis and continue investment work in my home town.
Until June, 1950, 1 was a registered representative selling securities for
the Indianapolis office of F. S$. Moseley and Company. Since June, 1950,
I have maintained my own office and handled mainly family investments.

For several years in the decade 1950-1960, I had numerous clients putting

money into oil prospecting in the tri-state area (Indiana, Hlinois and

Kentucky), Oklahoma and north Texas, with the normal average of

success,

In 1952, I was instrumental in establishing The Clowes Fund, In-
corporated, a charitable foundation of limited resources which, upon
the death of my father in August, 1958, became the owner of the
Clowes Fund Collection of paintings by the Old Masters. The Clowes
Fund opens the collection to the public one day a week and also by
special appointment at Westerley, 3744 Spring Hollow Road, Indian-
apolis. There have been various large loan exhibitions from the Clowes
Fund Collection in addition,

My business interests, particularly in recent years, include the de-
velopment of the Northwest Indianapolis Industrial Park, operation of
a small farm in central Indiana on shares with a tenant, small rental
properties, and blocks of Jand in the suburbs for future expansion.

All my life I have spent summers at Woods Hole on Cape Cod. In

recent ycars, time has allowed only brief stays there, but I do own a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 219
home — White Hill—near Nobska Light House and have a subdi-

vision in Sippewissett, part of the town of Falmouth.

As to family, I have little to say, being a bachelor as of this writing.
My brother, George Clowes, Jr. (Harvard 737 and Harvard Medical
’41), has done far better in this regard, and I have enjoyed his five
children.

My travels have been extensive since the end of World War II, both
throughout the United States and abroad. I enumerate only the major
overseas journeys on business, charitable work, as well as pleasure and
sight-seeing: (1) South America, April-June, 1948; (2) England, France
and Germany, June, 1950; (3) France, Portugal, Spain and Holland,
September, 1956, (4) France, Denmark, Sweden, and England, July,
1957; (5) Japan, October, 1960, to visit Paul Rusch at the Kiyosato
Project (KEEP), on the executive committee of which I serve; (6)
England, Austria and France, June, 1961.

As to hobbies, I am interested in photography, mainly of my travels,
and I give illustrated talks to such groups as the Council of World
Affairs, The Herron Museum of Art, various men’s and women’s
clubs, church groups, especially to do with the privately supported and
exciting work of Paul Rusch in the mountains of central Japan — KEEP,
The Kiyosato Education Experiment Project.

In May, 1959, planning started for Clowes Memorial Hall for the
Performing Arts, which opened with considerable fanfare October 18,
1963. It is located on the campus of Butler University at 46th Street
and Sunset Avenue in the near north side of Indianapolis. My mother,
Mrs. G. H. A Clowes, was the principal donor of this 2,200-seat multi-
purpose performing arts center. Our classmate, John Johansen of New
Canaan, Connecticut, was associated in the design of the building with
Evans Woollen of Indianapolis. I now serve as chairman of the council
which operates the center.

My orientation to the visual arts started a decade ago to be supple-
mented by a strong interest in the organization and management of the
performing arts. As can be noted in the portion of this report concern-
ing membership in civic and charitable institutions, I am involved in
virtually all the major groups in Indianapolis concerned with theatre,
music and the like.

The location of Clowes Memorial Hall for the Performing Arts, which
was built in memory of my father, George Henry Alexander Clowes
(1877-1958), in Indianapolis was determined by the fact that for nearly
half of his life he was associated with Eli Lilly and Company in this
city and made his headquarters there while serving as director of re-
search for the Lilly Company. He was one of the founders of the
Indianapolis Symphony. Understandably, it is a source of great pride
to me that Clowes Hall is now the home of the Indianapolis Symphony
of which Izler Solomon is conductor. The building is used as a cover
story in the December, 1963, issue of Architectural Forum magazine.
There is no nced to amplify the fact that a major portion of my time
and energy has been consumed in attending to all phases of this project
from the planning through construction, the gala opening and now
overseeing its operation. The bill of fare for the first season, October,
1963-May, 1964, chosen to appeal to as wide an audience as possible,

220 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

included in addition to many other varied events, the Bolshoi Balle
Folklorico Mexican dancers, New York City Opera Company, Vienn
Symphony Orchestra, Bob Hope, Benny Goodman, Roger William
and Barbra Streisand, as well as the latest dramatic and musical nationa
touring companies from Broadway, Attendance has been virtually a
capacity.

The rapid and extremely interesting and enjoyable passage of the
last twenty-five years has only served to strengthen my strong belies
in aiding my fellow human beings on all levels of society. I always try
to follow a statement I once received from the American Friends
Service Committee — “If there be any kindness I can show, or any good
thing I can do, let me do it now; let me not defer or neglect it, for I
shall not pass this way again.”

In political party affiliation I am a Republican but with many ideas
more near the center than the right. Although I was baptized at West-
minster Presbyterian Church in Buffalo, New York, where I was born,

since college days I have been an active member of the Protestant
Episcopal Church.

_

McCREA HOWARD COBB

    

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Mitchell Ave., Port Washington, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Hazeltine Corp., Little Neck 62, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Tome School, Port Deposit, Md.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: S.B., 1939.

marniep: Mary Kilmer Butler, Dec. 18, 1942. cHroreN: Susan Butler, May 13,
1944; David McCrea, April 9, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Assistant director of personnel, Hazeltine Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Pi Eta Club; Play Troupe of Port Washington, Inc.; American
Management Association; Eastern College Personnel Officers; Middle Atlantic
Placement Association; Mid West College Placement Association; Southern

College Placement Association; Southwestern College Placement Association;
Port Washington Yacht Club.

After leaving college in 1939, I tried retail merchandising and whole-
sale sales with a number of companies. | enlisted after Pearl Harbor and
wound up as a tank maintenance officer in the 3d Armored Division.
Following a nine-month stretch in the clutches of the Army Medics after
my tank was blown up, I ended my active military career as a staff

LOTH ANNIVERSARY RE

ofheer at Armored Force Headquarters at For
resetvist Until they tried to grab me for Korey,
“Kennedy” type back, they didn’t need me

\ moved into “Personnel” in one of the usual

relatively senior personnel executives have follow
ment” to “Sales Training” to “Supervisory Trait
\atons’ and then “Employment.” In my eleven yee
handled an extensive College Recruitment Prograr

colleges each year personally (aided by a four-man :
staffed three new corporate subsidiaries, and at time:

family of living more on the road than at home,
probably might,

For fourteen years, up until this year, when I took
Uhave been the general superintendent at St. Stephen's
School, All but one of my senior assistants are Harvar.

one Princeton man in), In ros9 I started to prepare fe
the Long Island Bishop's Night School, Partially due t

ments and partly because 1 found I wasn’s thar “high” a.
dropped out after one semester,

Yn far from final analysis, I'm still not sure that it w:
while attempt, and I'm still not sure I’ve rejected the “ca

Lam sure, however, that night school is not the way to pr
thing requiring the dedication of the ministry,

Personnel work, especially the work with young college ge
Many ways, a rewarding activity. I find I am not the “do-g
of personnel man, but [ have also discovered that personnel c
taviluable bridge between management and the employees
sonnel man can keep the goals and needs of both parcies

telatively impartially before him as he works. Finanetally, I

Tam underpaid and, at least in this respect, I feel I have been a

Tecognized.

. My children have, to all intents and purposes, grown up in Pos
Igion —a good town to live in. Being on the water (Masha-
and Long Island Sound) much of our activities center around ch-
Club and boating. Both Sue and David are expert Sailors and Saja
Stuctors, Sue, at Skidmore, is king a major in Elementary Ede
(K-6). Dave is at Storm King School, endeavoring to bring fis rece
achievement up to his capability. I doubt if he and Harvard will fire
much in common, especially with the current admissions practice.
Taother, a Dartmouth daughtex, has hopes he and Dartmouth might .
More affinity.
ext Washington school system instrumental music is @ max
A many adults get inco che act as well, Ive been playing tea
mer Band” with my daughter, 2 flutist, for a auniber of yea.
y oucerts on the Town Dock, my Harvard Band Drdivics
ae ry helpful and it has been! Lots of fun,
‘vard activity that I still practise, is stage lighting, I usually-
ighting, thre nasicals ea vet
i nt

222 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

All in all, I guess my non-academic experiences at Harvard have pro-
vided more lasting impressions and satisfactions than my academic pro-
gram. Looking back, 1 wish I had taken greater advantage of the ac-
ademic contacts and stimulation that were available then (and are today
in even greater degree). I suppose, though, that today’s seniors will look
back on their wasted opportunities in much the same way, twenty-five
years from now.

Also, looking back over the years, I wish that I had been able to have
more close friends in our Class and had kept in closer touch with the
many friends I did have. I suppose the war years helped to spread us out,
and until recently I rarely got to the Cambridge area.

One thought that disturbs me a little, and which may have a connec-
tion with the foregoing paragraph, is that in spite of all the propaganda,
I don’t really feel any obligation to support Harvard financially. Per-
haps it’s the increased or more publicized emphasis on “excellence” that
leads me to suspect that not only would my son not be admittable, but
perhaps neither would I in today’s “Market.” I give moderate support
to the Band and my Club because of personal involvement, but I just am
not “reached” by any appeal based on Harvard’s contribution to the
world in general! I wonder if this is just a persona] idiosyncrasy or if
this is a sympton of our generation?

i.

 

HOME aporess: R.F_D. 2, Galion, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cobey Corp. Galion, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Galion Senior High School, Galion, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: 8.B., 1939.

MARRIED: No. CHILDREN: Herbert Todd, Jr.; John Geoffrey (by former marriage).

HARVARD SON: Herbert Todd Cobey, Jr., 765.

occuPaTiIoN: Executive, Cobey Corporation — farm machinery, industrial material
handling.

OFFIces HELD: President, Cohey Corporation; executive vice-president, Perfection —
Steel Body Company (hydraulics, road building equipment) ; vice-president,
Eagle Crusher Company (stone quarry and mining machinery).

puBLIcaTIONS: Novel, Blond Corinthian; playa: “Exodus,” “Story of Jamie Far-
rell,” “The Journey”; patent applied for on heating, drying and packing
devices,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 223

GASTON COBLENTZ, JR-+

  
 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 127 Blvd. Haussmann, Paris VIII, France.

JOHN COBURN

  

HOME ADDRESS: 450 South St., Needham 92, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: F'abreeka Products Co., 1190 Adams St., Boston 24, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937.

MARRIED: Jane Stockton Shaw, June 18, 1940. cHitpren: John, Jr., Aug. 1, 1941;
Lawrence Stockton, July 11, 1943; Joan Shaw, Nov. 12, 1948.

HARVARD sons: John Coburn, Jr., 63; Lawrence Stockton Coburn, 65.

OccUPATION: Division manager, Fabreeka Products Company, manufacturers of
industrial rubber goods.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and director, Coburn Brothers Corporation, since 1960;
president, 1942, vice-president and director, since 1960, Brooks School
Alumni Association, Inc.; president, Maine Canners & Freezers Supplymen’s
Association, since 1962; treasurer and director, 25th Reunions, Inc., since
September, 1963.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club; Dedham Country and Polo Club: Harvard Club
of Boston; New Haven Law Club; New England Railroad Club: Newcomen
Society in North America,

In 1959 we built a small cottage for summer use at the northeastern
end of Buzzards Bay in Warcham, facing Cape Cod. In 1960 we started
a family retail clothing business in nearby Mattapoisett, This store is

224 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

on Route 6, is called Coburn Brothers and it is run — unprofitably so f:
— by our two sons on an all-year-round basis. The following year, c
June aust, I gave up smoking completely.

Family, friends, exercise, athletics, sports and hobbies are my majc
interests. My present duties as treasurer with our 25th Reunion Committe
have been awfully good fun and J look forward to the big event in June

MONCRIEFF MITCHELL COCHRAN, JR.

    

HOME AppRESS: Kelman’s Point, South Orleans, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sea Pines School for Girls, East Brewster, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939,

MARRIED: Elizabeth Cabot, Oct. 19, 1941. CHILDREN: Moncrieff Mitchell, 3d and
Helen A. (twins), Aug. 10, 1942; Mary H., March 26, 1944; Thomas, Jan.
10, 1946; Colin, Jan. 9, 1948.

HARVARD SON: Moncrieff Mitchell Cochran, 3d, ’64.

occupation: Dean and teacher of sciences, Sea Pines School for Girls.

OFFICES HELD: President, Orleans Rotary Club, 1957-58, Orleans P.T.A., 1953-54;
president, board of trustees, Sea Pines School for Girls, since 1962; vice-
president, Parish Committee, First Parish Church, Unitarian, Brewster, Mass.,
since 1962; skipper, Sea Explorer Ship Neuset, Orleans, Mass., since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Phi Delta Kappa; National Education Association; American Per-
sonnel and Guidance Association; NAACP; National Geographic Society;
Great Books (leader); Boy Scouts of America (explorer scout leader) ;
Chatham Dramatic Guild; Cape Cod Mental Health Society; Orleans Rotary
Club; Orleans Recreation Commission.

Obviously an impossible assignment, to sum up twenty-five years as
busy and happy as mine in a few short sentences, but here goes: first of
all, the best thing that happened to me was that I was dropped from Har-
vard at the end of my freshman year and had to go to summer school to
get back in. If 1 hadn’t 1 wouldn’t have met Betsy Cabot whom I married
in 1941. Corny it may be but I can’t visualize being as happy with anyone
else, We have had five children together (pretty good fun on the whole),
have brought them up, camped all over the United States and Europe
with them, climbed countless mountains with them (Long’s Peak and the
Matterhorn were high points), and alternately suffered and rejoiced
through their educations with them. Since 1947 we've lived the year
round overlooking the Atlantic on Cape Cod, a mile from the nearest
paved road. We've been snowed in, blowed in, and mudded in, Once

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 225

we were snowed in for weeks and had to haul in kerosene for our stove
on a toboggan behind our aged horse. It’s —but there | go talking too
much as usual and I haven’t told much about those things “the Class”
wants to know.

Strange as it seems I’ve spent most of the time since leaving college in
teaching. I fell into this quite by accident after the War (I was a corporal
in the Air Force, physically disqualified from almost everything by an
old skiing injury ), found I was good at it and enjoyed it, and went back
to college (Boston University) to get the degree I would have gotten
from Harvard if 1 hadn’t been so irresponsible. Later I got a Master’s in
guidance at the University of Colorado. I taught sciences at Orleans
High School on the Cape and became guidance director at the time it
regionalized with two surrounding towns to become Nauset Regional.
Soon thereafter, in 1961, I was fired from the job I'd had since 1947 by a
new administration whose methods I refused to go along with. To bring
the whole situation into the open, I fought the dismissal in a series of open
hearings before the School Committee which kept the townspeople from
TV for several weeks. It was an exhausting experience but one which my
convictions would not let me dodge. It split the towns wide open, lost
me most of my conservative friends and gained me many liberal ones,
and whetted my interest in local politics.

Politically, ’m a thorough maverick. I was a solid Republican untul
the Eisenhower administration, became disenchanted and voted for JFK.
I like almost everything he stands for, notably his strength in Berlin and
Cuba, attempted rapprochement with Khrushchev, Peace Corps (1 think
a domestic one is just as necessary as a foreign one), stand on civil rights,
and continuation of all the foreign aid we can afford. I’m still a Massa-
chusetts Republican but think Peabody is way ahead of anyone else the
Democrats have found.

My hobbies are reading Great Books with my wife (intellectually
stimulating, leads to marvelous arguments after we go to bed), Scouting
(it'll either keep you young or kill you young), sailing, mountain climb-
ing, camping, traveling, riding, and reading, reading, reading. My job
“now takes in almost all of them. In 1962 my wife and I and two other
couples took over a moribund girls’ school in Brewster on the Cape, re-
opened it, and have been running (and expanding) it since. It is a
fascinating and creative job, allowing us all to put into practice the edu-
cational ideas we have been nurturing for years. For this Harvard man
there haven’t been enough hours in the day. And why? Because after
Harvard you can’t close your mind to anything!

wv

226 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

DAVID GAGE COGSWELL

r ree fein eres

    

2

  
  

HOME ADDRESS: 18 Cedar St., Wenham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Army Aviation Section, Hq., Third U.S. Army, Fort McPherson,
Atlanta, Ga.

PREPARED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

marrRIED: Teresa Evelyn Gahn, Dec. 20, 1945. cHILDREN: Timothy David, Oct. 21,
1946; Cynthia Hope, May 11, 1948; Thomas Edmund, July 26, 1952; William
Robert, Feb. 28, 1960; Mary Victoria, April 21, 1962.

OCCUPATION: Colonel, Artillery, U.S. Army; aviation officer, Headquarters, Third
U.S, Army.

Except for two years immediately after graduation, the Army has
been my career. Wenham is listed as a home address only because my
good and patient brother usually knows where to forward our mail.
Harvard, Cambridge and New England have become rather dim albeit
pleasant and fond memories,

The good Lord blessed me with a very lovely wife, one with con-
siderable patience and great loyalty. We have five wonderful children
with the right number of arms and legs, sturdy backs, strong wills, and a
reasonable amount of brains. The demands of military life are heavy,
yet our life has been happy and rewarding. Indeed —I have been lucky.

' Life in the Army is nomadic to say the least. A list of stations and
unit designations to which I have been assigned would fill several pages.
I have just returned from a year in Korea (sans family) as Eighth Army
aviation officer. To those who served there under more trying times, be
assured it stil] gets just as cold and smells just as ripe. Nevertheless, this
crossroads of the Orient is worth our effort. I like the people, their tradi-
tions and their culture. Only a nation with real character could survive
in such a historic three-way geographic nutcracker position between

China, Japan and Russia. | commend Hilburt’s History of Korea recently

republished by the Royal Asiatic Society for those who believe the future

is reflected in the past.

Thanks to Harvard ROTC plus a good solid year of apprenticeship
learning the fundamentals of aviation with Pug Piper and his fine family
at Lock Haven way back in 1940-41, I have grown up within the
Army with that stepchild, Army Aviation. The ghost of Billy Mitchell
still haunts the Army. There ts no aviation branch or corps, yet the
stepchild is now coming of age and is claiming the heritage vacated by

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 2

the old Army Air Corps. I like to think that I have helped make -
possible by contributing to the development of tactics, techniques ;
equipment employing organic aviation to provide the Army with grez
mobility. Flying is still a pleasure, not a chore, but the opportunities
partake thereof get fewer and fewer. The wreath on my master avia
wings is symbolic of a wide bottom.

Have completed the gamut of military schools to include the V
College and have survived the gladiators course in the Pentagon Colise
as a “gut fighter.” Politics is out of bounds for the military, so wo
you civilians please hurry up and get the world straightened out! T
old warrior is ready to settle down and has no particular urge to run
to some remote part of the earth because the natives are getting restle

EDWARD MORRISON COGSWELL +

 

LAST MAILING appREss: P.O. Box 762, Alexandria, Va.

JOHN ALEXANDER COGSWELL ft

SORES AUER TREN NET RINE cRE AN get

   

(oo
C ac
7 a
"how a ak ‘shin sot D1

LAST MAILING abpress: Employers Group N.E. Dept. 40 Broad St

Mass. 02109, . Bosamm

228 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

GERARD FRANCIS COHAN

 

HOME ApprEss: 21110 W. Wagar Circle, Rocky River 16, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: B.F. Goodrich Chemical Co., 3135 Euclid Ave., Cleveland, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939.

MaRRIED: Helen Dewhirst, Sept. 18, 1943. cHILDREN: Kathleen, Aug. 9, 1944; Pa-
tricia, Nov. 20, 1948; Thomas Paul, March 23, 1950; Michael Charles, Nov. 7,
1952; Mary Elizabeth, March 16, 1956; Margaret Ann, March 29, 1957.

occupation: Chemical manufacturing; manager, extrusion and molding, plastics
materials sales.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Society of Plastics Engineers.

Today it’s integration or segregation, then it was isolation or interven-
tion, conformist or non-conformist. Fashions of the day are not limited
to clothes.

Experience beyond the Yard has revealed in the American people an
inherent sense of fair play tending to temper extreme positions.

The gulf between the salaried man and the wage earner has narrowed.
Fringe benefits have lessened segregation in the industrial society while
the oppressed worker has successfully bequeathed the sixty-hour week to
the ambitious organization man.

The lonely missionary is joined by Foreign Aid and the Peace Corps
with the moral assent of the majority. Even the ecumenical movement is
guided by leaders who are following the spirit of their constituents.

Perhaps the omnipresent cry for justice may one day prompt the state
to treat all citizens alike in the field of education, With six children to
educate, our lives will be entwined in formal schooling for many years.
I’m somewhat deflated when my advice is not sought after the fifth grade.
As my boys approach military age, I suspect they will be totally dis-
interested in any advice I might offer based on my own period in the
service.

My first assignment in industry was in the Akron, Ohio, research
Jaboratory of the B.F. Goodrich Company in various phases of natural
and synthetic rubber work, This was interrupted by Army service, after
which I transferred to the development laboratories of the chemical di-
vision working on polyvinyl chloride plastics. This led to technical
service and sales assignments in New England and later in Ohio. My

present activities as market manager of a rapidly growing line of products

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 229

take me to all areas of the country and present a varied array of interest-
ing and satisfying experiences.

ALBERT KIRCIDEL COHEN

  
  

Set abe gS a

  

o
|
L

ey,
aiencatsanniall om eurisbe ena cate

S

HOME ADDRESS: 1325 N. Washington St., Bloomington, Ind.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Sociology, Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1939; a.m. (In-
diana Univ.) , 1942; pu.p. (Harvard Univ.) , 1951.

MARRIED: Natividad Manguerra, Dec. 12, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Professor of sociology, Indiana University.

MEMBER OF: Ohio Valley Sociological Society; American Sociological Society;
Society for the Study of Social Problems; Société Internationale de Crimi-
nologie.

PUBLICATIONS: Delinquent Boys: The Culture of the Gang. Glencoe. The Free
Press, 1955; editor (with others): The Sutherland Papers, Bloomington,

Indiana University Press, 1956; numerous chapters in books, articles in pro-
fessional journals, book reviews.

SAMUEL LOVELL MOORE COLE

  

HOME Appress: 2688 Crest Lane, Scotch Plains, NJ.

OFFICE AppRESS: Pfaff & Kendall, 8+ Foundry St, Newark, NJ.
PREPARED AT: Pingry School, Elizaheth, NJ.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. prGkEES: a.p., 1939; sa, 1040,

230 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

marrieD: Eleanore Bell, Sept. 21, 1940. cHi~preN: Samuel Lovell Moore, Jr.,
Sept. 5, 1947; John Arthur, July 28, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Engineer, manager, Special Products Division and project manager
of prime construction contracts.

OFFICES HELD: Deacon, trustee, Community Presbyterian Church, Mountainside, NJ.

The company I work for is engaged in signing for the Interstate
Highway Program, and it configures tubing for commercial applications.

CHARLES ELMAR COLSON

    

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Hallen Ave., Milton 86, Mass.
OFFICE abprEss: Liberty Mutual Insurance Co., 378 Stuart St., Boston 17, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. prcREES: a.B., 1939; ti. (Northeastern Univ.),
1948,

MARRIED: Frances Quinn, March 2, 1943. CHILDREN: Roberta, Dec. 10, 1943; Rose-
mary, March 8, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.
MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association.

Taught high school; enlisted in Army, spent eighteen months in North
Africa and Italy, hold rank of lieutenant colonel in Army Reserve. En-
joy career as trial lawyer handling accident insurance cases.

Do-it-yourself projects provide much of my exercise and recreation.
Wife and daughters are attractive, intelligent and family-centered. We
like Eisenhower and we like Kennedy. We share the hopes and aspira-
tions which both have voiced for this nation and all people.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 231

FREDERICK TOWNE COMEE, Il

  
  

epee herpes “omar wore
& “4 af
Bo 4 Z
e 4
s 3
% 4

 

5

HOME ApDpREss: 243 Tepee Rd., Bridgeville, Pa.

oFFice apprEss: U.S. Steel Corp., 525 Wm. Penn PI., Pittsburgh 30, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Provincetown High School, Provincetown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: 5S.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Cebe Pasco, Jan. 25, 1941. cHipREN: Frederick Towne, 3d, April 18,
1943; Jay Harlan, Sept. 6, 1946; Cameron Brooks, March 14, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Western regional manager, construction marketing, U.S. Steel Corpor-
ation.

MEMBER OF: Society of Architectural Historians.

PUBLICATIONS: “Louis Curtiss of Kansas City,” a biographical article about an
enigmatic architect at the turn of the century, August, 1963, Progresstve
Architecture magazine.

These years since graduation have been filled with change and motion,
and a great many of the good things of life. They began in Boston
where I worked for American Airlines, intending to go back to college
for my architectural degree. The summer after graduation had been
spent aboard the schooner Bowdoin, as a member of the MacMillan
Arctic Expedition to Labrador, Baffin Land and Greenland. In the sum-
mer of 1940 I met the girl, married her five months later, and was
promptly drafted.

I wound up in the Signal Corps and ultimately went overseas with the
59th Signal Battalion. We spent a few months in England, crossed the
Channel soon after D Day, and participated in five major campaigns in
crossing Europe. Outside Brest, France, I received a battlefield commis-
sion,

Our first son, Towne, was nearly three when I came home, and I had
seen him only twice. We settled in Chicago and went to work for USS.
Gypsum Company. Harlan, our second son, arrived in September, 1946,
and in 1949 we were transferred to Boston. Cameron, our third son,
arrived in the spring of 1952, and by the end of that year we again lived
in Chicago. I left U.S. Gypsum in 1956 to join Kaiser Aluminum and in
1959 we were moved to Oakland, California, In the fall of 1960 I joined
U.S. Steel Corporation in Pittsburgh — yes, we did leave our hearts in
San Francisco.

Towne is a junior at the University of Missouri, studying advertising
and journalism; Harlan is a senior in high school; and Cameron is in the
sixth grade. Being an artist, Cebe is studying portraiture. I travel too

232 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

much, write too little, and am busy winding up assorted projects arour
the house and grounds. We all believe that dreams do come true for v
have just been transferred again and shall return to the San Francisc
Bay area soon after the New Year, with our French poodle and calico ca

EDGAR DANA CONGDON +

ec agen RCE MAY SH A

     
 

Ooi AU SS Sy la EWEN

ji a AS AES dub

ela

®

LAST MAILING aDpREsS: Staff House, State Hospital, Central Islip, Long Island, N.Y.

NICHOLAS CHARLES CONIARIS

    
 

  

  
  

HOME ADDRESS: Main Street, Hollis, N.H. 03049.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Community Store, Hollis, N.H. 03049.
PREPARED aT: Milford High School, Milford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. peGREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Phyllis May Goodwin, June 7, 1941. cHmorREN: Anne Jane, June 8,
1942; Peter Nicholas, Oct. 23, 1946; Ruth Goodwin, Sept. 20, 1948.
OCCUPATION: Owner of country store. :

For the past five years I have been running a general store in Hollis.
So far business has been satisfactory and the pace is leisurely. Plenty
of time for golf, but am still a hacker,

My wife is the postmaster in town. Anne is a senior at New Hamp-
shire University, Peter is at Beverly School for the Deaf and Ruth is a
sophomore in Hollis High.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 233

Visited Cuba in 1960. My visit didn’t make me an authority but I
believe our State Department made a great error when it didn’t help
Castro. He could have been the key to showing us how to save all South
American economies.

This is the only industrialized country in the world where one can
be in a large stadium or hall containing thousands of people and the
chances are mostly likely that there isn’t one real Jeftist in the entire
crowd. So why are we terrified of Socialism and Communism? I be-
lieve Kenneth Galbraith and H. Stuart Hughes provide many of the

answers to our problems. These are men who make me proud of
Harvard.

FRANCIS RAYMOND CONNOLLY +

 
  

LAST MAILING abpress: 20 Thomas St., Jamaica Plain, Mass.

N

DAVID JAMES CONROY

   

HOME aporess: 115 Park Drive, Clarks Summit, Pa.

OFFICE appress: International Salt Co., Clarks Summit, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Clarks Summit High School, Clarks Summit, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935~1939, DEGREES: S.B., 1939; LL.B, 1947.

MARRIED: Lois Hepner, Jan. 12, 1946. cHiLpREN: Susan H., Jan. 27, 1947; Patneemmeeney
July 9, 1950; Christine, Nov. 30, 1951; William Peter, Sept. 7, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Secretary and resident counsel, International Salt Company.

234 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

oFrrices HELD: Director, Lackawanna County Bar Association, Clarks Summit.
Abington School System, Community Medical Center; trustee, Everhart
Museum; advisory director, Third National Bank & Trust Company; trustee
Trade Relations Council of the United States. ,

MEMBER OF: American, Pennsylvania and Lackawanna County Bar Associations;
Country Club of Scranton.

Well, let’s see. First off, I suppose I was America’s oldest schoolboy
by the time I finally untangled myself from Cambridge. Law schoo! was
complicated by pneumonia, a broken leg that resulted from a coincidence
in time and space of a patch of ice and an inside edge, and then, of course,
World War II couldn’t have come at a more inconvenient time. That
was when I flew airplanes for the U.S. Navy, and I can’t say either of us
was exactly elated about rhat arrangement. My war career was quite
remarkable — wound up with six planes to my credit. Unfortunately,
they were all ours, and I was more or less flying them at the time, so I
suppose that if I came out of the war an “Ace,” it was only in the eyes of
the Japanese.

Then, happily, the war ended. I was especially happy at the time be-
cause I was alive, and then I met Lois and we posted bans, plighted our
troths and married each other, and there was champagne and dancing
in the streets. And so back to law school.

I came out of the war a different man. Hardened, determined. Mar-
ried, penniless. So, Jacob Wirth’s was out, the Library was in, and it was
all study, study, study and caveat emptor and res ipsa loquitur and all
that stuff, and by and by I graduated, but that was in 1947, and thirteen
years had gone by since I first entered the Yard, and that’s why I said,
quite a few words ago, that I was America’s oldest schoolboy by the
time I finally untangled myself from Cambridge.

Then it was off to Scranton, Pennsylvania, the hanging of a shingle,
and the business every neophyte lawyer faces of “getting one’s self
known in the community.” Talks to the Rotary Club (“Every Man
Should Have a Will’); talks to the Ladies’ Business Club (“Portia, What
a Woman!”); ad infinitum. This was our period of genteel malnutrition.

Fortunately, my bumbling sincerity and patent honesty (the word
“Veritas” is tattooed on my forehead) began to strike a responsive chord
with judge and jury and lo! my fortune was made! Inside plumbing,
Budweiser beer, Robert Hall, off season trips to Atlantic City, green
stamps — all the joys that money can bring were ours.

Then, a few years ago, the International Salt Company (this is an
international company that, with typical corporate deviousness, makes
salt) invited me to join them as their house counsel, and oh my, haven’t
we had lots of funny jokes about that word “house,” and impressed by
their business acuity and wholesome attitude toward me, I fell all over

myself in accepting their offer. So now I am a real corporate wheel and

have an expense account, and credit cards and a telephone with buttons
on it, just like the big fellows.

Now, I notice the questionnaire states that the Class wants to know
my social, political or religious convictions. Well, rhat’s very flattering
and all but I’m just a litte bit doubtful if they really do because, as I re-
call it, every time I started to give my convictions twenty-five years ago
everybody started talking about something else. So let’s just skip it.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 235

My family? They are just fine, thank you. We're a closely woven
group — with lots of common interest in the same things, and usually
at the same time; i.e, the car, the bathroom, the morning paper, etc.
We enjoy being together and spend a good deal of time looking at each
other with loving incredulity. 1 really like them a great deal and some-

times I think they like me, too, A man can’t ask for more than that, can
he?

ROBERT McTAVISH COQUILLETTE

  

    
  

 

HOME appreEss: 20001 Shelburne Rd., Shaker Heights, Ohio. ;
OFFICE ADDRESS: Ohio Rubber Co., Div. of Eagle-Picher Co., Willoughby, Ohio.
PREPARED AT: Flint Central High School, Flint, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: S.B., magna cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Dagmar Bistrup, May 4, 1940. CHILDREN: Daniel Robert, May 23, 1944;
William Hollis, Oct. 7, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Executive; vice-president, Eagle-Picher Company and president of its
Ohio Rubber Company Division.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Lake County (Ohio) YMCA, Willoughby Community
Fund; director, University School Chapter, American Field Service; director,
Tree Growers, Inc., 1956-62; Town Meeting Member, Lexington, Mass., 1948-
62; Library Building Committee, Lexington, 1955; president, Hancock Congre-
gational Church Men’s Club, 1961-62; Boy Scouts of America, various ofhces
since 1935. .

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Association of Harvard Chemists; American Chemi-
cal Society; Harvard Club of New York; Mentor Harbor Yachting Club;
Republican Finance Committee.

I left college fully intending to return for an advanced degree in
chemistry, but the whole fabric of the manufacturing industry was so
fascinating that I have never returned although learning goes on un-
abated. Before the war, Procter & Gamble was the employer and direct
production management was the job, first in Cincinnati and then later in
Staten Island. I still carry fond memories of both the company and those
early jobs.

The service in the Navy came so late in the war that there was no
real action although, as navigator of a destroyer assigned to Japanese
occupation duties, the rocks sometimes seemed to pose threats as deadly
as any torpedo! Looking back now, those two years have a sort of unreal
quality about them.

2 36 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Out of the Navy, we stayed in the Boston area to which my wife had
retreated while I was in the service, and J joined Dewey & Almy Chemical
Company in Cambridge. Through sixteen years of service, the work
slowly changed from manufacturing supervision to that more general
executive job which defies precise description. W.R. Grace & Company
had taken over Dewey & Almy in 1954, and the years from 1955 through
196z were spent as general manager of its Overseas Chemical Division.
The experience of trying to build living, growing, profitable organizations
in foreign locations was stimulating; and I think activities like these on
the part of many Americans are having profound effects in both de-
veloped and undeveloped areas,

In the spring of 1962, we decided to return to the domestic business
field by accepting an offer to join the Eagle-Picher Company as presi-
dent of its Ohio Rubber Division. This division is a manufacturer’s

manufacturer making useful things out of combinations of polymers
and elastomers. It is very much a domestic business with factories from
Stratford, Connecticut, to Long Beach, California. There are some 2000
people employed in the Division, most of whom are at the main factory
location in Willoughby, Ohio, just outside of Cleveland.

Aside from enjoying both the practical and the theoretical problems
of the business enterprise, | have always found great satisfaction in wife
and family. Our interests and hobbies have slowly changed over the years
from the electric trains of childhood to the Saturday sail races of today.
This has been an active family, and the activities have led me into all sorts
of community duties from Town Meeting Member in Lexington, Massa-
chusetts, to the American Field Service Board at the University School
here in Cleveland, which my younger son attends. My elder boy is en-
joying Williams College where he is now a sophomore.

In a way I rather resent having reached a 25th Reunion. There is so
much to do and so many changes in the offing that 1 would much prefer
just to be starting again. The managing of the change ahead will be an
exciting task and a formidable challenge!

JOSEPH JAMES COSTELLO

  

  

Home appress: 181 5. Northington St. Prattville, Ala.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Social Security Administration, Montgomery, Ala.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 237

PREPARED AT: North Quincy High School, North Quincy, Mass.; Thayer Academy,
Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936, 1937-1940. pEGREES: a.B., 1939(40); a.m. (Colum-
bia Univ.), 1950.

marrieD: Mary Elizabeth Smith, Nov. 11, 1945, cnitp: Kathleen, Dec. 7, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Government service.

PAUL G. COUNIHAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 30 Holden Wood Rd., Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 312, State House, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. prcREES: a.B., 1939; LL.B., cum laude, 1943(48).

MARRIED: Genevra P. Reed, Oct. 1, 1949. curLpREN: Timothy Reed, Oct. 7, 1953;
Paul Gerard, Jr., Oct. 11, 1956; William E., March 15, 1959.

occupation: Lawyer; counsel to the Commissioner of Administration, Common-
wealth of Massachusetts.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Cambridge Federal Savings & Loan
Association; clerk and director of various small corporations.

MEMBER OF: Several Bar Associations; A.V.C.; Union Boat Club; Democratic
Town Committee, ete.

A year and a half after graduation, after I had just started Law
School, I found myself on active duty with the 26th Division, Returning
to civilian life in September, 1946, I went back and finished Law School.
After about a year of practice with a large firm in New York City, I
returned to Boston and have been practising law in Boston and Cam-
bridge with my brother ever since. My private practice has been
interrupted twice, however, once to work in the O.PS. during the
Korean conflict, and again at present as counsel to the Commissioner of
Administration in Massachusetts. I plan to return to private practice
after a year or two, but I do consider government service very reward-
ing and I urge my classmates seriously to consider seizing anv oppor-
tunities which may arise to serve the local, state or federal government.

While working’ in New York I met, courted and married Genevra
Reed of Stillwater, Oklahoma, who is also a lawver, although she has
not been too active in the law lately; and we have three fine bovs,
aged ten, seven and four. In 1952 we moved from Cambridge to Con.
cord and have enjoyed life in the town very much. We have both
served on various town committees and feel verv much a part of the
community.

23 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

I would guess that we live a life pretty comparable to that of most
members of the Class, but with more interest and activity in the Demo-
cratic Party than the average. After the time taken up by work, the
children and community activities, we find we can play quite a bit of
tennis, ski and skate a little, see some shows, and do a little partying.
We look forward to the Reunion and the chance to see many friends
we haven't seen for too long a time.

PETER COVEL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Cottage St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Electronic Specialty Co., Kennedy Antenna Division, 155 King
St., Cohasset, Mass.

PREPARED aT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1933-1937.

MARRIED: Sally S. Scudder, Dec. 20, 1941. cHmprEN: Betsey B., Aug. 4, 1942;
Linda, March 4, 1947; Borden, 2d, Dec. 13, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Ground based radar and communication antennas; sales department,
product sales manager.

MEMBER OF: Hingham Yacht Club, Hingham, Mass.; Rogerson House, Boston,
Mass.

When I left in our sophomore year, I went to Nome, Alaska, to
work for the U.S. Smelting, Refining & Mining Company at their
placer gold mining operation there. I was in and around Nome for
four years working at different jobs, including gold mining with one
or two others, trying to make it on our own. We never struck it rich,
but the memories of those years are all enjoyable.

In the fall of 1941 I returned to Boston, was married and went to
work for Barbour Stockwell Company in Cambridge. This firm had
a foundry and machine shop where special industrial machinery was
made. With the advent of World War II, I was put in charge of secing
that the company complied with all the wartime regulations and
priorities.

In 1943 the Army finally caught up with me, 1 took my basic train-
ing at Fort Belvoir and late that year landed via convoy in England.
I joined an aviation engineer outfit and until the war's end we built,
maintained and repaired landing strips and air fields all over England,
France, Luxembourg and Germany. We saw a Jot of the country,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 239

never got into any really serious trouble and, all in all, had a reasonably
interesting time of it all.

I returned to the States in December, 1945, and went back to work
for Barbour Stockwell Company as a purchasing agent and then in a pro-
duction control capacity. In June, 1945, we found the house we wanted
in Hingham.

In May, 1952, I went to work for Vectron, Inc., an electronics firm
in Waltham, Massachusetts, where for four years I was a project man-
ager, administrating some of the larger contracts.

Finally in September, 1956, I found the best situation of all, located
in Cohasset, Massachusetts, and only a three-mile drive from my house.
This was at D. S. Kennedy & Company, manufacturers of ground based
radar communication antennas. I started in as the coordinator between
engineering and production, then shifted into sales, where I have been the
last four years. I travel just enough so that it is interesting seeing
different parts of the country, but not enough to spoil my home life,
which I am thoroughly happy to bask in.

The choice of settling in Hingham was most fortunate; it is a lovely,
old New England town on the ocean within easy reach of Boston but
definitely in the country. Sailing is among the best and this has become
our greatest extracurricular interest. We have cruised to Maine and
Buzzards Bay several times and believe this is the greatest sport there
is. Working on various committees at our yacht club and being involved
in the running of several racing championship series has also been
most enjoyable.

Our eldest daughter, Betsey, will graduate this spring from Hood
College in Frederick, Maryland, with intentions of being a teacher.
She has majored in French and has been a member of the choir which
last summer performed in England and Europe for a month, Linda is a
junior in high school and is devoted to anything to do with sailing.
Borden is in junior high and is interested in just about everything that
comes along.

As I write this we are scrambling to get a thousand things done in a
very short time in order to move to Los Angeles. Electronic Specialty
Company, which took over D. S. Kennedy in 1961, is transferring the
division there and we must go, By no means is this a happy departure —
we have been most fortunate in our friends and our wav of life has been
highly agreeable. But ever onward and upward (we hope), so off we
go in January.

This will pretty well eliminate us from attending the great Reunion.
To all of you whom we shall miss seeing — our best regards, See you at
the Fiftieth! °

Although I was at College only a relatively short time, I consider
myself a staunch son of Harvard and am very proud of it. I believe
firmly in what Harvard stands for — a democratic attitude where quality
is the most important factor, and I try to live that wav mvself. "

Socially Iam not anti, politically IT guess Tam a Republican (although
my patience gets pretty thin at times), and religiously | am relaxed.
Physically I am getting out of breath and out of shape — neither of
which do I enjoy.

2 atone meipemis

te

40 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

EDWARD FRANCIS CREGG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 46 Sunset Rock Rd., Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 30] Essex St., Lawrence, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1942.

makkieD: Margaret M. Hart, Nov. 1, 1947. cuHtcpren: Linda Ann, June 30, 1949;
Francis A., 2d, March 24, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Attorney, in practice alone, general practice.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Lawrence Savings Bank; member, Finance Committee,
Town of Andover, 1961-63, Andover Republican Town Committee, since 1951.

MEMBER OF: Bon Secours Hospital Guild; Men of Merrimack College; Cum
Laude Society, Phillips Academy Chapter; Harvard Law School Alumni
Association; Lawrence Bar Association; American Bar Association.

Life for me has continued to follow about the same pattern that |
described in the Twentieth Anniversary Report. I’m still practicing law
and enjoying it. During the last several years I’ve been sitting a good
deal as auditor or master in civil cases under orders of reference from
the court. This work has involved hearing all kinds of actions and suits
and has added a lot of variety and interest to the regular routine of
practice.

My principal interests outside of business are, of course, home and
family. Daughter Linda is now fifteen and a first-year student at Abbot
Academy in Andover. Son Frank is ten and attends Pike School, a private
grade school in Andover. I’m happy to say that so far, at least, both
have shown interest in school work and have done well. We're definitely
education conscious in our house but we’ve tried not to make the kids
feel that they're under any pressure to get good grades or outstrip any-
one else, I think that much of the tension and anxiety which secondary
school students feel over admission to college is created by guidance di-
rectors or college admission advisers, and ought not to be charged against
parents, as it seems to be usually.

So far as life in general is concerned, at the risk of seeming self-satisfied
or complacent, I'm going to say that | believe all I really wish for at this
point is continued good health ‘for a while yet. Tim grateful for the bless-
ings that have come my way, not the least of which have been a charming
and understanding wife and two very satisfactory children,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 241

MATTHEW JOSEPH CREHAN

   

porn: Aug. 19, 1917, Dorchester, Mass. PARENTS: Matthew Joseph Crehan,
Katherine Healy.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936, 1940-1941.

marriep: Helen S. Karpowicz. cup: Matthew Joseph, Jr.

DieD: Dec. 28, 1958, Dorchester, Mass.

During World War Il, Crehan had a brilliant record as a fighter pilot
and was decorated with the Silver Star, three Air Medals and the Purple .
Heart. In 1953 he was one of those who came forward to help get
$10,000 for three Chinese fishermen who had rescued him when his
plane crashed in the sea off Hong Kong in 1944. At the time of his
death, Crehan was a control operator for the Civil Aeronautics Author-
ity. He was survived by his wife and son.

LINN JAMES CREIGHTON

tadenense

        

HOME appress: 8 N. Main St., Flemington, N.J.

OFFICE appress: Presbyterian Church, Flemington, NJ.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, pecrees: a.B.. 1939; Bp. (Union Theological
Seminary, N.Y.), 1048; THM, (Princeton Theological Seminary).

MARRIED: Lois Richardson Glover, May 25, 1946. crito: Patricia, April 1, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Minister.

- ON ete a

242 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, following committees, Presbytery of New Brunswic
Pensions, 1951-53, Church Cooperation and Union, 1953-54, Stewardst

and Promotion, 1954-57; chairman, committee on Stewardship and Pror
tion, Synod of New Jersey, 1956-59.

From graduation to 1942 was for me a time of trying to find a purpo:
and thereby a career. I spent ume pounding pavements, seven month
working in a bank, and a year as a master in South Kent School i.
Connecticut. Enlisting in the Army, I was assigned to the Air Corps
transferred to the Infantry, and discharged to accept a commission ix

the Navy. Serving in Washington was deadly dull, so I finally workec
myself to the Naval Frontier Station at Charleston, South Carolina, anc
served for a short time aboard a submarine chaser and a YP (anything
for which the Navy has no other name, in this case a converted shrimp

boat with four depth charges and a 50 caliber machine gun). Beached
again for poor eyesight, I was assigned to naval censorship in San
Francisco, It was there, in the last year, that I decided to enter the
ministry, or to be more accurate (as perhaps only another person who
has gone through the same struggle could understand), had the decision
made for me. | entered Union Theological Semmary in New York in
1945 and married a fellow student, Lois Richardson Glover, Vassar
"41, the following year. Graduating B.D. in 1948, I served as assistant
minister in the First Presbyterian Church of Caldwell, New Jersey,
for seventeen months before being called as minister of the Presbyterian
Church in Flemington, New Jersey, where I am still pastor. The
ministry demands more than any man has to offer it, and a parish
which had scarcely changed since the nineteenth century did not make
it any easier. However, fourteen years of hard work abetted by an
ever-increasing influx of new people have set the tide moving fast
in our favor. Additions to our ministerial staff have given me the oppor-
tunity of concentrating on my first love in the Church which is preach-
ing and to take a Th.M. in this field in Princeton Theological Seminary,
conveniently located twenty miles from here. Perhaps it is the Harvard
influence, but I cannot seem to quit studying, so may end up one day
with a Doctor's degree in theology if I don’t retire first. To a church-
man the Church is a way of life, in my case too absorbing for his own
good, so apart from some hunting and fishing and occasional pleasure
reading my life is pretty well taken up in my calling and in professional
study. However, my wife and my seven-year-old daughter manage to
keep me sane when 1 take myself too seriously, and they effectively
squelch any delusions of grandeur | may occasionally have. As for
Harvard, 1 shall be forever grateful for the education I received there,
and hope that in some measure | may have repaid her in trying to ful-

fill the purpose of that other motto on the seal of the University,
Christo et Ecclesiae,”

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 243

BAINBRIDGE CRIST

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3510 Inverness Drive, Chevy Chase, Md. 20015.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Newmyer Associates, Inc., 1000 Vermont Ave., N.W., Washington,

PREPARED AT: John Simpkins High School, Bass River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: s.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Green, Aug. 26, 1944 (died Aug. 2, 1963). cHILDREN: Anne
Elizabeth, Oct. 20, 1946; William Bainbridge, Oct. 23, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and director, Newmyer Associates, Inc., public re-
lations counseling firm. -

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of trustees, Legal Aid Society, 1960-62; member,
board of directors, Washington Chapter, Public Relations Society of America,
since January, 1963.

MEMBER OF: Public Relations Society of America; Counselors Section of PRSA;
National Press Club; National Yacht Club.

After graduation from college I joined the news staff of the Washing-
ton Star as a cub reporter. I went through the usual routine of rewriting
handouts, covering civic luncheons and meetings, covering police, writing
obituaries and handling general assignments. I was then assigned to cover
the District Government.

I resigned in 1945 to become associate editor of National Aeronautics,
a monthly magazine published by the National Aeronautic Association.
Aviation advertising fell in the immediate postwar years, and the editor
and I were dropped. In the spring of 1946, I became Washington editor
of Tide, then a weekly magazine of advertising, marketing and public
relations. At the end of 1950, I resigned to enter government service as
chief of the Trade Press and Trade Association Branch, News Division,
Office of Price Stabilization. Life was hectic under Mike DiSalle, but I
enjoyed every moment of it, and I wouldn't trade my government ex-
perience for anything.

In 1951, I joined the staff of Newmyer Associates, Inc., then Arthur
Newmyer and Associates, a W ashington public relations counseling
firm. In 1960 I was made a vice-president and, in early 1963, TL was also
elected a director,

From 1960 to 1962, I served on the board of trustees of the Legal Aid
Society to handle public relations, and in 1963 T became a director of the
Washington Chapter of the Public Relations Society of America, [am
also a member of the Counselors Section of PRSA, My only other mem-

244 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

berships are the National Press Club and the National Yacht Club, b
virtue of owning a nineteen-foot Lightning class sailboat. |

[ was married to Elizabeth Green in Jamestown, New York, in Augus1
1944, and we had two children, Anne Elizabeth Crist (1946) and Willian
Bainbridge Crist (1950). My wife died in August, 1963, after a lon;
illness of hepatitis. Anne will graduate from Holton-Arms School fo.
Girls (Bethesda, Md.) in 1964, and plans to attend the foreign language
school of Georgetown University. Bull is now in the eighth grade a
Landon School for Boys (Bethesda, Md.) and has all the athletic skill

lacked. Maybe some day he will be coming to Cambridge — but it is «
little early to tell.

AUGUSTUS THORNDIKE CROCKER

    

HOME appreEss: Mill Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 541 High St., Westwood, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, pEGREES: 5.B., 1939; Mv. (Tufts Coll.), 1944.

MARRIED: Julie Schoepf, Dec. 20, 1952, CHILDREN: Augustus Thorndike, Jr., Feb.
3, 1956; Jonathan Amory, Feb. 15, 1957; Christopher Schoepf, Oct. 7, 1958.

OccuPATION: Physician — internal medicine; private group practice, Dedham
Medical Associates.

OFFIcEs HELD: Physician, University Health Service; associate in medicine, Peter

gent Brigham Hospital; physician, Free Hospital for Women, Town of Dover
CNHools,

MEMBER OF: Norfolk District — Massachusetts Medical Society; Dedham Country

and Polo Club; Massachusetts Charitable Fire Society; Massachusetts Chari-
table Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical articles.

After graduation an interest in serious music led me to selling music,
phonographs and hi-fi equipment with F. L. P. White (’38). The war
caused me to review my aims and led me to prepare for medical school.
I was accepted at Tufts Medical School in 1941. In October, 1944, having
had two years of medical school as a private in the Army Specialists
Training Program I graduated and had my internship at Boston City
Hospital. Just a few weeks short of V-J Day I was called to active duty
with the Army, in which I served from 1945 to 1947; my most interestin
but least military function in the service was to minister to the healt

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 245

and needs of war brides and babies on an Army transport crossing the
Atlantic.

Returning to civilian life I took a residency in medicine at the Faulkner
Hospital and then two more years of residency at the Boston City. I
then worked for a year in the state’s program for rheumatic fever and
then for two years as a research fellow with Drs. Samuel and Harold
Levine.

In 1952 I met an old acquaintance but in a new guise. My first recol-
lection of my bride-to-be was as a small pigtailed girl riding a horse. I
never dreamt that fifteen years later when she was a medical student and
I a young M.D. I would ever be so attracted to her. We were married
in December, 1952, but the Korean conflict disturbed our domestic bliss.
As I had had education in medicine at government expense I was vulner-
able to the doctor draft, and six weeks after our wedding I was called
off to active duty with the Air Force. Fortunately, the hospital I was
assigned to was only two hundred miles from my wife and we were able
to get together on weekends. During this ume also I received my cerufi-
cation aS a specialist in internal medicine from the American Board.
After release from this tour of duty I became cardiologist for the White
River Junction Veterans Administration Hospital and Center and an in-
structor at Dartmouth Medical School. My wife interned at the nearby
Mary Hitchcock Memorial Hospital and we were able to share an apart-
ment. In 1954 we moved back to Boston, my wife to do her residency in
anaesthesia at the Massachusetts General while I set up practice in Brook-
line.

After six happy years and three small boys, an opportunity occurred in
the suburban group practice of the Dedham Medical Associates. This
group had previously been depleted by the untimely death of C. H. Weed
(’40) and was about to be once more depleted by C. Prout (’37) leaving
to become Harvard University Health Services Chief of Medicine. We
moved to Dover, only three miles from my office in Dedham, and are
enjoying life in the country. My wife now works as anaesthesiologist
for the Lahey Clinic and our three boys enjoy the benefits of the nearby
Charles River School.

EDWARD BURRILL CROHN

EEESe ees USSSA EEC

246 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HOME ADDRESS: 326 Westmoreland Rd., Buffalo 26, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Veterans Administration Hospital, Buffalo 15, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Realgymmasium, Vienna, Austria.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. pecREES: a.B., 1939(40); m.p. (Univ. of Buffalo),
1943.

MARRIED: Frances Harrison, March 31, 1951. cHmpren: Theodore, May 22, 1953;
Andrea, Feb. 6, 1935.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in medicine, University of Buffalo School of Medicine.
MEMBER OF: American Medical Association.

1 graduated from the medical school of the University of Buffalo in
1943, Went ON to an internship i in the Naval Hospital, St. Albans. After
a few months’ training in California | spent a year in the Philippines do-
ing strictly non-combatant medicine, There followed six good months
in physiology at the University of Utah and residencies in the laboratory
and medical services of Mount Sinai Hospital, New York. I practised
medicine in the town of Kent, Connecticut, for six years. In 1956 I was
certified by the American Board of Internal Medicine. For the past six
years | have been on the staff of the Veterans Hospital in Buffalo, New
York.

We live in the suburbs and lead a suburban life. We work on the

house, build and refinish furniture, play music, tennis, sail a small boat
and do a lot of skiing.

CARLYLE CRONIG:

 

HOME ADDRESS: Centre Street, Vineyard Haven, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cronig’s Real Estate, Main Street, Vineyard Haven, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Tisbury High School, Vineyard Haven, Mass.

YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Phyllis Kramer, Jan. 21, 1951. cHiLpren: Steven Carlyle, Feb. 5, 1955;
Peter Mark, March 24, 1957.

occupaTION: Partner, real estate brokerage.

OFFICES HELD: Past Commander, Post 926], Veterans of Foreign Wars, 1956;
General George W. Goethals Post 257, ‘American Legion, 1960; Cub Scout-

master.

MEMBER OF: Martha’s Vineyard Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Masons; Lions Club; Tax-
payers Association.

After a short stint with Western Union at San Francisco, I signed up

with the Air Force as a cadet and was called in December, 19qo. Then

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 247

followed tours of domestic service and duty with the 8th Air Force in
England and 2oth Air Force in Saipan. I saw the light of day again in
November, 1945. The Air Force was generous and allowed me to leave
with the rank of lieutenant colonel.

I made a couple of false starts in Boston and New York and one
semester at Harvard Law School. In early 1948 I settled down to the
good life on this beautiful island of Martha’s Vineyard. Compared to
most of you, I married rather late. A lovely wife and two fine young
‘sons help to make the good life.

TOM REDFERN CULLEY

®

sAmpeentapejate a mapetrspryinie Sage te

Fat

  

HOME ADDRESS: 425 Churchill Lane, Fayetteville, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Mobil Oil Co., Bear & Solar Sts., Syracuse, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, West Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Catherine M. Patterson, June 3, 1939.

OccupPATION: Sales manager; Mobil Oil Company, Syracuse, N.Y. sales district.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, New York State Petroleum Council, Syracuse area,
1962, co-chairman, United Fund Drive, 1962.

MEMBER OF: University Club, Syracuse, N.Y.; Syracuse Liederkranz; 32° Mason.

For me the twenty-five years since graduation have been spent
almost entirely in the marketing segment of the petroleum industry,
more especially with the Mobil Oil Company, a division of Socony
Mobil Company, Inc.

After a June graduation and a marriage and a short two-month
stretch with the Hood Rubber Company in Watertown as a trainee, I
accepted a job with the Mobil Oil Company as a sales trainee in Pitts-
burgh, Pennsylvania. It was from this city that in 1942 I enlisted in the
Army and was sent to the Armored Force Center at Fort Knox, Ken-
tucky. Then followed thirteen weeks of Officer Candidate School and
assignment to the zoth Armored Division at Camp Campbell, Kentucky,
as a brand new second lieutenant. From Camp Campbell, the division
was sent to Europe where I became an aide de camp to the commanding
general. Shortly thereafter I was put out of action by a German sniper
and shipped home to the States,

After demobilization, we again returned to Pittsburgh and the Mobil
Oil Company where we spent many happy years even though both

248 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

my wife, Catherine, and I had and still have very definite Republican
leanings in an overwhelmingly Democratic area. In 1956 I was promoted
to a district marketing assistant and in 1958 to the district sales manager.
In early 1960 we moved to Syracuse, New York, to take over the
district sales manager’s job in that district. Both my wife and I like
very much the central New York area even though the winters are
long and the summers brief. It is quite by coincidence that one of my
toughest competitors in the petroleum industry here in Syracuse is Roger
M. Scaife, the Gulf Oil Corporation district sales manager, and also
a member of the Class of 1939.

To be sure, we both feel more at ease in this traditionally-Republican
stronghold, but as of the present time, not convinced that Nelson Rocke-
feller should be the Republican candidate in 1964. We are both mem-
bers of the Fayetteville Episcopal Church but are not over active in
church affairs. Our leisure time is spent in gardening and those other
activities that one finds in a friendly, neighborly community. Inter-
spaced are many quick trips to Boston, Massachusetts, where both our
families are still living.

The social, political and economic changes that we have seen in the
past twenty- five years have been tremendous, but I feel sure that the
next twenty-five years will bring forth even more dramatic changes.
To be an adequate member of any society, it behooves us all to advance
with these changes, promoting those that are for the best interests of
all and making our thoughts known on those that benefit only the
few. It is in this area that too many of us are complacent and voiceless,
and we sidestep our responsibility not only to society in general, but
to ourselves as individuals, citizens and businessmen. To this end I
firmly believe that all of us, with major emphasis on myself, should
take the necessary time for thought, effort and action on all issues
whether they be social, economic, political or religious to make known
to all our considered opinions to the end that the “noisy few” do not out-

weigh the “silent many.”

* BRUCE DODGE CUMMINGS

 

BORN: Oct, 22, 1917, Franklin, Mass. PARENTS: Leslie Olin Cummings, ’10, Grace
reble.
PREPARED AT: Northwood School, Lake Placid Club, N.Y.

Ta

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 249

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREE: s.B., 1939.
HARVARD BROTHER: Stearns Preble Cummings, ’37.
piepD: Dec. 20, 1941, near Fredericksburg, Va.

After graduation Cummings did graduate work in chemistry at the
University of Buffalo and then secured a position as chemist with a
Buffalo concern. In August, 1941, he enlisted in the Marine Corps. He
was stationed at Parris Island, South Carolina, when he was killed in
an automobile accident. He was survived by his father and brother.

JOHN HENRY CUNNINGHAM, JR.

- . : i wer, 3

eet 4 ke ef ;
a y f ‘
™ on : i 3
: : * a
‘ : ae ;
ot b oe » 3
g , i
:
i

    

HOME ADDRESS: Oak Hill Road, Fayville, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Whitin Machine Works, Whitinsville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Jill P, Storey, Nov. 20, 1943. cHicpREN: John Henry, 3d, Nov. 7, 1944;
Robert Storey, May 29, 1946; Christopher Davis, May 22, 1950.

HARVARD SON: John Henry Cunningham, 3d, ’67.

occupation: General superintendent in charge of manufacturing, Whitin Machine

Works.

OFFICES HELD: Commodore, Beverly Yacht Club, since 1963; Civil Defense Di-
rector, 1955-60; vice-president, Society for Advancement of Management,
1955-60; president, Whitinsville Hospital, since 1960; town moderator, North-
bridge, Mass., 1959-61; trustee, Fay School, since 1962; director, Northbridge
Chamber of Commerce, 1953-58.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club; Laurel Book Club; Kittansett Club; Beverly

Yacht Club, Marion, Mass.; Society for the Advancement of Management;
Granite Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

Immediately upon graduation from college I started my apprentice-
ship at Whitin Machine Works, Whitinsville, Massachusetts, manufactur-
ers of textile machinery and printing presses. During this time I put
my Harvard ROTC training to good use as commanding officer of a
Naval Reserve Unit in Worcester and in 1940 was called to active duty
with the Navy. My first job was assistant navigation officer on a cargo
ship bound for Russia. In my travels on this ship we were fired at by
various German submarines, which scared me enough to make me want
to be on the ship doing the shooting rather than being shot at. Therefore,
1 joined the Submarine Service and made fifteen war patrols in the Pacific
area, having command of four submarines during this period,

While in Australia on submarine duty, I became engaged to Jill P.

250 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Storey but was not allowed by navy regulations to get married in Aus-
tralia, so she came to the U.S.A. and we were married in Brookline,
Massachusetts, in 1943.

After my discharge from the Navy in 1945, I returned to Whitin
Machine Works where | completed my apprentice course and in 1946
took over as general superintendent of manufacturing in a plant employ-
ing approximately 4500 people,

During this period we were blessed with three boys, the eldest one of
which is currently a freshman at Harvard College.

In my spare time I have been actively engaged in sailing both racing
and cruising boats, in shooting and fishing in various parts of the world

and occasionally tempting fate on skis during the winter months. 1 have
played a great deal of golf in various friendly tournaments and have had
great success due mainly to my excellent partners who like my large
handicap.

From the middle of September to the middle of June, we live in a
home acquired in 1961 in Southboro, Massachusetts, and the rest of the
year is spent at our summer home in Marion, Massachusetts, right on
the water. I have been active to a small degree in politics, at the local
level, together with other fraternal organizations,

Life as a whole has been extremely good to me. I can honestly say, if
I had to live it over again, at this point there is very little if anything
left to be desired. Perhaps my only wish at this time, as I view the var-

ious Harvard athletic contests each year, is that I could turn the pages
back and be an undergraduate once again.

PAUL GILMORE CUNNINGHAM

 

HOME apprEss: 133 Bedford St, Lexington, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pbecReEE: A.B., 1939,

marrizp: Ann Frances Lyon, June 25, 1942, cHipren: Cynthia Ann, Feb. 10,
1944; Paul G., Jr., March 12, 1946; Philip Lyon, Sept. 28, 1949.

occupation: Lexington Golf Club; assistant greenskeeper, laboring.

MEMBEK OF: Peter Tare, Inc.

My career since graduation has been a checkered one and not
entirely consistent with a Harvard education. Ir develops in five-year
segments.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 251

The first five years were spent serving in the U.S, Navy, both en-
listed and commissioned in Destroyers and Motor Torpedo Boats. The
second was with the International Business Machines Corporation where
I spent five years chasing IBM quotas. The third was five years of
direct sales in several lines. The fourth segment was five years com-
mitted to a mental hospital. The fifth and current segment has been
five years laboring on the rolling green hills of the Lexington Golf
Club as assistant greenskeeper. This last has been the most productive
of pure pleasure and a large degree of physical, mental and emotional
fitness. At work with the dawn, seven days a week — the performance
of the simple physical activities that make up this kind of work, out-
doors in all kinds of weather, has provided much satisfaction,

For the last eighteen years we've made our home in Lexington,
Massachusetts, and welcome here any of our Class who would care to
visit.

Although I don’t know what the future holds for us I am looking
forward to it with eagerness.

PETER FRANCIS CUNNINGHAM

  

AREY

asa ieaton mermtpgra

 

HOME AppRESS: 115 Penfield Rd., Rochester, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: James Cunningham Son & Co., Honeoye Falls, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Marguerite Mignon, April 10, 1943. cuttpreN: Anne, 1946: Paul, 1947;
Mary, 1949; Louisa, 1951; James and John (twins), 1953; Martin, 1962.

OCCUPATION: President, James Cunningham Son & Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, board of directors, David Hochstein Music School;
director, Liturgical Arts Society.

MEMBER OF: Country Club of Rochester.

President of James Cunningham Son & Company since 1958, manufac-
turers of sophisticated electrical information switching systems.

Father of seven children, ages one and a half to eighteen; four boys
and three girls. President of Hochstein Musie School, Rochester.

cm

252 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ROBERT JOSEPH CUNNINGHAM

    

HOME apprEss: 79 Highland Ave., Rowayton, Conn.

OFFICE appRESS: Hawthorn Books, Inc., 70 Fifth Ave., New York 11, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Boston College High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; a.m., 1941.

MARRIED: Mary Rose Whitaker, June 25, 1949. cuiLDREN: Robert John, June 11,
1950; Anne, Aug. 20, 1952; Thomas Edward, Oct. 10, 1957.

occupPaTION: Editor, Hawthorn Books, Ine.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association, American Catholic Historical
Association, both in Washington, D.C.; Chicago Book Clinic, 1960-63;
American Institute for the Graphic Arts.

Books, war, international affairs and books again— these have been
my major interests and concern since 1939. The summer of my gradua-
tion I toured western and central Furope with a group of students, view-
ing the major monuments of western culture and gaining lasting impres-
sions of the nations and their peoples just prior to the holocaust of
World War Il.

1939-41. I was enrolled in the Harvard Graduate School of Arts and
Sciences, where I took an A.M. in Romance languages.

1942-45. I was on active service with the U.S. Army, rising from
private to first lieutenant. Assigned to the Counter-Intelligence Corps
in North Africa, Italy, Austria. Participated in the Naples-Foggia, Rome-
Arno and Po Valley campaigns, received commission outside Florence,
was awarded Bronze Star medal.

1945-1955. After demobilization at Vienna, Austria, I was in govern-
ment service with the Department of the Army, the Department of State
and other agencies, mainly in Europe.

1955—present. Engaged in editorial work for a number of publishing
houses in Westchester County, New York; Chicago, and New York
City. At present, I am editor for Hawthorn Books, a general trade pub-
lishing firm specializing in books of high quality and lasting value. For
me, publishing has been a rewarding and fascinating experience,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 253

SPURGEON HADDON CUNNINGHAM, JR.+

ees

   

LAST MAILING appRESss: 715 Jerusalem Rd., Cohasset, Mass.

HAROLD MARSHALL CURTISS, JR.

   

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Waybury Inn, Route 125, East Middlebury, Vt.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Co-owner, Waybury Inn; co-owner and associate director, Keewaydin
Camps for Boys, a summer recreational camp.

OFFICES HELD: Teacher and coach, Governor Dummer Academy, South Byfield,
Mass., 1939-42; teacher and coach, 1946-52. principal of high school, 1953-56,
Sidwell Friends School, Washington, D.C.; co-owner, Waybury Inn, since
1956; co-owner and associate director, Keewaydin Camps, Salisbury, Vermont,
since 1946; member, since 1958, chairman, since 1961, Middlebury School
Board; trustee, Sheldon Museum, Middlebury, since 1959; member, board of
directors, Vermont Mental Health Association, since 1959; clerk, Fire District
No. 1, Middlebury, since 1959; member, State Manpower Commission, 1903;
member, Advisory Council of County Counseling Service, 1963; chairman,
American Field Service Chapter, Middlebury, since 1962. Military: 1942-44
American Field Service, Africa; 194446, U.S. Navy. lieutenant, Washington,
D.C., Oriental Language School, Boulder, Colo. Far East; 1952-53, U.S.
Navy, Washington, 1).C.

MEMBER OF: Kenwood Golf and Country Club, Washington, D.C.

Since moving to Vermont in 19536 and being busy there with the Kee-

254 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

waydin Camps for Boys and the Waybury Inn, there has been relativ
little change in my way of life. Both businesses are prospering, which ;
enabled me to break away occasionally for a yearly trip to Euro;
Mexico, or assorted areas, However, aside from these trips there is r
too much time for leisure, and recreation takes the form primarily
enjoying the lake and mountain scenery, walking and keeping up wi
the news of the day. In a town such as Middlebury and a state such
Vermont the demands for participation in community affairs are tr
mendous, if one is at all interested and cooperative. The school boar
work has been most challenging and rewarding and, presently, I cor.
template with pleasure a Democratic incumbent in the governor’s office
having played a very small part in helping his election.
Considering the span of time since graduation, I have no regrets — the
variety of experiences, the new friends, good health and interesting

economic opportunities have all added up to a stimulating twenty-five
years.

JOHN WILSON CUTLER, JR-+

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: Westover Road, Stamford, Conn.

NORMAN JAMES DAIN

   

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Ridge Crest Drive, R.D. 2, Chesterfield, Mo.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 255

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ridgway, Hirsch & French, Inc., 8012 Carondelet Ave., St.
Louis, Mo.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. becREE: a.B., 1939.

marRIED: Bernice Frances Taylor, Oct. 2, 1948. cHitpreNn: Abigail, March 17,
1950; Sarah Elizabeth, May 23, 1951; Nancy Beatrice, June 11, 1953.
OCCUPATION: Vice-president and creative director, advertising agency.

Carefree prewar days in Boston as a copy-boy on the late Transcript
and then a stringer for the Boston Globe. But enlistment ended the idyll.
My war was fought in Missouri and the picturesque beauty of western
China, whence I survived as a captain in the Army Signal Corps. The
China story was continued on a return trip as a member of a motion
picture crew. I saw the East of mainland China just before it went under
to Communism. Ambition and fond hope: to return to this fascinating
land where I had spent three years, when it is again free in my lifetime.
Marriage and a job, both intensely interesting, set in with suburban living
right out of the book. Grass to cut, babies to watch grow beyond me,
community affairs to tend to. But Korea interrupted this life-phase, too.
Fortunately, I fought this war from the Pentagon and was set back
relatively little in my advertising career. After eight years I left the
advertising department of Shell Oil and Shell Chemical to join a big
New York advertising agency. But you can’t stand still. I moved on to
Pittsburgh as copy director for a big ad agency.

Life in Pittsburgh took on greater dimension — the boundless freedom
both of high land on which to cut the grass and of the liberalism of the
Unitarian fellowship. Opportunity has again arisen—and in August,
1962, I joined a St. Louis advertising agency as vice-president and creative
director. There seems to be the potential for gratifying success in this
high-pressure business. And again we live on a prominence, overlooking
the valley of the confluence of the Mississippi and the Missouri Rivers.

As time goes, it will soon be my wife and [ alone again. Then we shall
return to New England, its seasons, and its seas — where we belong.

SAMUEL ROBERT D'AMICO
roo gh oy

  

HOME Abpress: 112 S, Plymouth Blvd, Los Angeles, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: St, James Episcopal Church Reetory, 3903 Wilshire Bhal, Los
Angeles, Calif.

a

256 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

  
   
   
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
  
   

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B, laud .
(Episcopal Theological School), 1943, cum laude, 1939; B.v., cum laude
marnieD: Virginia Shepard, July 20, 1946. cumpren: Virginia Shepard, April
10, 1947; Samuel Robert, Jr. Oct. 17, 1948; William Anthony, Jan. 12, 1951.
occupation: Rector, St. James’s Episcopal Church.

I taught Latin for three years after graduation. My interest in educa-
tional work continued after completing my theological training, and I
subsequently spent a year at the Harvard Graduate Schoo! of Education.
After ordination I served several years as director of Christian educa-
tion, first for the Episcopal Diocese of Rhode Island, while working as
Canon of St. John’s Cathedral in Providence, and later for the Episcopal
Diocese of Los Angeles.

It was inevitable that I should eventually enter parish work, since this
is the normal way to exercise one’s ministry. I Spent sixteen years in two
parishes, St. Athanasius’, Los Angeles, and Holy Faith, Inglewood, Cali-
fornia. Both parishes underwent considerable expansion as the immigra-
tion to the west coast continued steadily.

Last year I accepted the call to St. James’, Los Angeles, the largest and
most important of the Episcopal Churches in the central area. The
tremendous influx of people of all races is providing us with an unprec-

edented opportunity to test the reality of our Christian fellowship.

JOHN FRANCIS DAMMANN, JR.

 

HOME aAppreEss: “Barrsden,” Stony Point Road, Charlottesville, Va.
OFFICE appREss: Dept. of Surgery, University of Virginia Medical Center, Char-

lottesville, Va.
prepareD aT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, III.
YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., 1939(41) 3 M.p. (Univ. of Cincinnati),

MARRIED: Nancy Sanford McLoughlin, June 21, 1941. cHiLpren: John Francis,
3d, July 17, 1945; Ralph Kellog, Feb. 24, 1947; Polly Adair, April 14, 1948;

Charles Gibson, April 7, 1953.
OccuPATION: Professor of surgical cardiology and pediatrics; career research

professor, NH. Award.
OFFICES HELD; Intern, Evanston Hospital, Evanston, Ill., 1944; resident, chief
resident, Children’s Memorial Hospital, Chicago, III, 1944-46; lieutenant
(j.g.) (pediatrics), U.S. Naval Hospital, Long Beach, Calif. 1946-47;
fellow in pediatric cardiology, Children’s Memorial Hospital, Chieago, 1948;

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 257

senior fellow in pediatrics, Cardiac Clinic, Harriet Lane Home, Johns Hop-
kins Hospital, Baltimore, Md., 1949-50; assistant professor, Dept. of Pediatrics,
University of California at Los Angeles, 1950-55; associate professor of
surgical cardiology, 1955-60, associate professor of surgical cardiology and
pediatrics, 1960-61, Dept. of Surgery, University of Virginia Medical Center,
Charlottesville, Va.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American College of Cardiology
(fellow) ; American Heart Association (executive committee); American
Society. for Pediatric Research; Western Society for Pediatric Research;
American Association for Advancement of Science; Southern Society for
Clinical Research; American Association for Thoracic Surgery; American
Federation for Clinical Research; Alpha Omega Alpha.

puBLicaTioNS: Fifty-five publications including: ‘Heart Disease, Congenital,”
Current Therapy, 1958, Saunders. “Clinical Aspects of Congenital Heart
Disease,” Cardiology: An Encyclopedia of the Cardiovascular System, McGraw-
Hill-Blakiston, 1959. “Reversibility of Pulmonary Vascular Disease,” Publica-
tion of Proceedings of International Symposium on Congenital Heart Disease,
Deborah Hospital, Philadelphia, Pa., Davis Co. Philadelphia, April, 1960.

_ “The Importance of Controlled Ventilation Following Open Heart Surgery,”
International Anesthesia Clinics, 1963.

I went to and through the University of Cincinnati Medical School
after graduation from Harvard. There are some who claim that the selec-
tion of Cincinnati as a medical school bore some relation to the fact that
my then fiancée and now wife, Nancy McLoughlin, lived in Covington,
Kentucky, just across the river. We were married after my first year of
medical school which means that another 25th anniversary and family
reunion will be in the makings soon.

Following graduation from medical school, I returned to Chicago
where I took my internship and residency training in pediatrics. Then,
a two years’ sojourn in the Navy where I was lucky enough to spend al-
most all of my time in general pediatrics —I do not mean to imply that
the Navy is completely without adults.

Following my tour of duty in the Navy, I returned to Chicago and
studied pediatric cardiology under Dr. Stanley Gibson and after that
under Dr. Helen Taussig at Hopkins in Baltimore. I have remained in
the field of cardiology ever since, although my interest has been in sur-
gical cardiology dealing with both adults and children, rather than
pediatric cardiology alone. After three years of training as a fellow in
cardiology, I joined the Department of Pediatrics of U.C.L.A as an
assistant professor and then a few years later completed my tour of the
U.S.A. by returning to the University of Virginia as associate professor
and now professor of surgical cardiology and pediatrics.

Research interest in medicine has been along two general areas: a) the
study and evaluation of pulmonary hypertension and pulmonary vascular
disease due to congenital heart disease and acquired heart disease, b) care
of the patient before and after open heart surgery. As the latter project
developed, I have had to call upon and use people of many disciplines:
engineers, mathematicians, computer experts and electronic specialists,
My own woeful lack of knowledge in these areas makes me wish that I
could be starting undergraduate training at Harvard all over again.

I have found academic medicine an exciting profession, Not only is
there opportunity to investigate unknowns, but there is the university
environment, a constant stimulus to “mush” forward. Furthermore, the
many different interests which are harbored under one roof in a uni-

258 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

versity constantly stimulate not only professionally but socially and at
home.

Life at the homefront has not been a staid and placid affair. The many
moves we have made have kept my wife and me busy, for most of the
houses we have acquired have needed changes, and most of the changes
we have made ourselves. Building and making alterations have consti-
tuted our major hobby, and to one who has not had experience I would
say that such a hobby has much to recommend it. We have recently
moved out into the country outside of Charlottesville, Virginia, acquired
an old and delightful mansion and the necessary land to go with it. The
farming we will leave to someone else at the present. There is a long list
of items, however, to be taken care of in the house, and it is easy to find
a job to fit any mood. When frustrated, cutting down trees or breaking
through a new door proves an excellent way of venting one’s spleen.
When philosophical and pensive, I recommend cabinet making for the
hours of sanding. When vigorous and ambitious, the putting in of new
electrical circuits, a paint or plastering job satisfies the creative impulse.
And finally, all jobs can be done alone or with the well meant, but often
not particularly effective aid of our children. .

We have four children. The eldest now in his second year at Carlton
College (he preferred a small school to one as large as Harvard), the
youngest still in the lower school age. Our only daughter is spending this
year in Geneva, Switzerland, staying with my elder brother, a newspaper
columnist. It is of interest that none of the four have shown any
interest whatsoevér in the medical profession. I will leave it to your
judgment whether this fact speaks well for father’s persuasive abilities or
the example he sets. Jeff, our eldest, will end up in some branch of
science. Ralph, our second, has shown real talent as a painter but also
expresses the desire of a career of law and politics. (I might add here
that all members of the family have been active in politics as liberal

Democrats.) Polly’s interests are sufficiently multitudinous at this stage
to give us little idea as to what she will wind up as, and Gibby, our
youngest, has not had time to consider the future. As a solid extrovert, he
may well end as an official greeter, salesman, public relations man or
politician.

In summary then, the twenty-five years since graduation have been
full years and on the whole happy and productive years. Hopefully, the
next twenty-five years will show even greater progress,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 259

LAWRENCE JOSEPH DANIEL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Mason Rd., Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rudy & Mann, 20 Clifton Ave., Brockton, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1936-1939. DECREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Marjorie Babbitt, May 30, 1945. cuiLpren: Meryl Anne, June 8, 1947;
Cathy Ellen, June 3, 1952.

OccUPATION: Manufacturer of women’s suits.
MEMBER OF: Blue Hill Associates.

I went into selling after graduation and have remanied in this field
through the years. I am now a partner with the title of treasurer in Rudy
& Mann, Inc., the firm with which I have been associated all through the
years. We are engaged in the manufacturing of women’s suits, which
we distribute nationally.

I have been married since May, 1945, and have two lovely daughters.
We have lived in Newton, a suburb of Boston, for many years and spend
our spare time on the golf course.

I have maintained my interest in music and reading, and I am con-
stantly trying to find time for travel, in which we are all very interested.

DONALD MALCOLM DANNER

     
  

- q

nN ph ‘
. ah *,- |
ftirs. Estee,

: . rr me x
a gp te A
oe YN ‘

5 ~ ~ 9

1 an ae

 

porn: Nov. 7, 1917, Glenville, Pa. parents: William Daniel Danner, Sallie Miller

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

260 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

PREPARED AT: York Collegiate Institute, York, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, 1940-1941, DEGREE: A.B., 1939(41),
piep: Oct. 8, 1946, Shepherdstown, W.Va.

After graduation Danner spent a year at Hahnemann Med}
in Philadelphia. In roqr he entered che Theological Seming. College
Evangelical and Reformed Church at Lancaster, Pennsylvania. y Of the

1944, he was ordained into the Christian Ministry and for two ye 7 July,
pastor of Christ Evangelical and Reformed Church in Shepherd Se Was
West Virginia. He was survived by a brother. town,

RICHARD JOHNSTON DARLING +

 
 

T MAILING ADDRESS: 10 Dartmouth St., Natick, Mass,

DONALD LAWRENCE DAUGHTERS

 

 

» OFFICE ADDKESS: USAID-Quito, % American Embassy, Ecuador.
aT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

OLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREE: A.B., 1939,

‘vonne Fath, Oct. 14, 1943. cuioxen: Laurence Kevin, Aug. 22, 1944;
George, Dec. 28, 1946; Robert Derrick, May 30, 1948; David Roscoe,

3, 1951; Michele Marie, June 14, 1956.

: Foreign A.LD, administrator, director of U.S, Economic Develop

ission to Ecuador, U.S, Economic Assistance overseas.

»; Special Agent, F.B.I., 1941-46; general manager, foreign subsidiary,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

261
Chile, United Shoe Machinery Corp., Boston, Mass., 1946-52, foreign subsidiary,
Chile and Brazil, RCA International, 1952-57; sales executive, Lord “Abbett
& Company, New York City, 1957-61.
MBER OF: Society of Former Special Agents, FB.1.; Quito Tennis & Golf Club;
ME Society for International Development.

A romance language major at the University and five years with the
FB. during World War Il, four of which were in foreign intelligence
(ewo in Europe, two in Latin America) oriented rather definitely my
future toward overseas activity. Married a charming and lovely Chilean

+] during the war, as a result of Latin American assignments. We have

four thriving young men and, finally, a girl, possessed of all her mother’s
charm, as evidence of a fruitful and happy marriage.

Ten years of managerial experience in commercial and industrial
operations overseas nailed me strongly to the masthead of free enter-
prise. A return to New York’s Wall Street and four years with the top
drawer investment managers, Lord Abbett, seemed to have fairly firmly
anchored me to domestic operations. But the lure of overseas work re-
mained. Upon the Kennedy Administration’s victory in 1960, 1 was
requested by old University friends close to the President to accept a
“Mission Director’s” post in Latin America in view of my earlier expe-
rience in the area. It has been fascinating, if discouraging at times, to re-
turn to government and lend an effort in probably the United States’ most
critical and immediate foreign policy problem area — Latin America. 1
need hardly mention that foreign economic assistance is painfully con-
troversial; that many State-side critics speak with a voice of authority
and little true knowledge of the problem. But still the challenge is there
and opportunity lies within our grasp to exercise a benevolent control
over Latin America’s destiny. Our development missions must play a
key role in this process. Holding public office will always be hectic and

thankless, but also satisfying, when one is convinced of the cause for
which one labors.

DONALD HERBERT DAVIDSON

 
  

  

fe ws wa .
Ad

HOME Appaess: Box 1-A, Star Route, Woodside, Calif,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Philosophy Dept, Stanford University, Stanford, Calif,
PREPARED AT: Staten Island Academy, Staten Island, New York, NX,

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

262

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

PH.D., 1949.
MARRIED: Virginia Baldwin, |
occupation: Teacher of philosophy, Stanford University.
OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Pacific Division, 1957-60, vice
American Philosophical Association; president, Stanford Chap
PUBLICATIONS: Decision Making, An Experimental Approach, c

Suppes; papers in Theoretical Economics, Psychology, E
Semantics, Theory of Mind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939.

©-auth

After three years in the Navy, I began teaching philoso
have been at it ever since. I came to Stanford University in

major interests are in the philosophy of language and the ana]
concept of intentional behavior.

FRANK PAUL DAVIDSON

  

   
    

HOME aAppreEss: 1140 Fifth Ave., New York 28, N.Y.
OFFICE AppREsS: 730 Fifth Ave., New York 19, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: S.B., magna cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1948.

marRieD: Izaline Doll, May 19, 1951. CHILDREN: Roger Conrad, June 30, 1952;
Nicholas Henry, Oct. 8, 1955; Charles Geoffrey, Feb. 21, 1959.

OccUPATION: President, Technical Studies, Inc. (American participant in the
Channel Tunnel Study Group); practice of international law.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, President’s Committee on Civilian Conservation Corps,
Washington, D.C., 1940-41; assistant to executive vice-president, Houston
(Texas) Chamber of Commerce, 1948-50; member, Committee on Inter-
national Law, Association of the Bar of the City of New York, 196]-63;
president, board of trustees, Trent School, New York City, 1960-64; vice

president and trustee, Ecole Francaise de New York, 1959-64.
aemMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Lawyers’ Club,

New York; National
Lawyers Club, Washington, D.C.; France-America Society; English Speaking
Union; Association of the Bar of the City of New York; Canadian Parac ute
Club (wartime).

JBLICATIONS: Before America Decides, Harvard and Oxford, 1938 (co-editor);
American Youth, Harvard and Oxford, 1940 (co-editor) ; managing edier
Quarterly” Journal of Inter-American Relations, 1939-41; Vanguare, ,

Official History of the Fort Garry Horse, Doetinchem, 1946 (this was te r

oficial Canadian regimental history of World War II).

. ‘ 1 —

‘immediately after graduation, three of us from the Class of 39 to

orge Phillips, the lace Phil Bagby and myself — went co Vermont

> AM., 194).
1943. cHitp: Elizabeth, Dec. 4, 1956, 3

“President
ter, AAU

author with
thies, Aestheticg
9

Phy and |
1051. M
YSIS of the

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

263
work 25 farmhands in the Tunbridge Valley. Later we were joined by
Enno H

obbing, ’g0, and by a group from Dartmouth. Following a stint
as enrollees m

the Civilian Conservation Corps (1 remember my surprise,
digging fence-post holes in New Mexico, at feeling so much healthier

han at Harvard!), we formed Camp William James with the help of
professor Eugen Rosenstock-Huessy. I later spent some months in
Washingt

on setting up a Presidential Committee to examine whether the
Civilian Conservation Corps might have a permanent role in America;

then came the war. Sargent Shriver was kind enough to refer to these
yarious efforts as forerunners of the Peace Corps.
Enlisting as a troope

rin the Canadian Armoured Corps, I had the good
luck to serve in the Fort Garry Horse, a western tank regiment, through-

out the campaign in northwest Europe. Troop leader, squadron com-

mander and, at the end, general staff officer (Intelligence) of a brigade
group, I le

arned how fortunate we are to have as neighbors to the north

people so cheerful, steady and generous. When peace broke out 1 found

the accelerated course at Harvard Law School hard to settle down to,
but like so many others have been grateful to Harvard and to the GL.

Bill of rights ever since. After graduation, sensing that I knew too little

of the West, I accepted an invitation for a long weekend from Malcolm

Wilkey, "40, to visit him in Houston. I stayed two years learning that

Texas has more “depth” than as a naive Easterner I had realized.

In 1950, having launched a combined center for the training of reserve
forces of the Army, Navy and Air Services, I left for Paris in order to see
more of a girl I had met in Cambridge while struggling through law
school. The ECA Special Mission to France came to my rescue with a
job as assistant to Mr. Horace G. Reed, surely one of our great Gf not
widely known) public servants; Izaline and I were married in the sep-
tiéme arrondissement, and in the autumn of 1953 we sailed to New York
with our baby son, Roger, to begin the long-postponed but seemingly in-
evitable career in the law.

For three years I practised law (first with a firm of real estate special-
ists, then on my own). But a contract negotiation which required several
crossings of the English Channel in bad weather led me, after my wife's
fully justified complaints, to launch a company to revive the Napoleonic
project for a Channel tunnel. With Harvard friends and connections —
Cyril C. Means, Jr., 738, Arnaud de Vitry, G.B., ’53, Thomas 5. Lamont,
’21, and others, Technical Studies, Inc., was formed and soon afterwards

the Channel Tunnel Study Group, a joint venture with the Suez Canal
Company and the British and French railway systems. Someday the —
tunnel will be built. But Nicholas, now eight, and Charles, now five, are
skeptical; they have seen too many meetings, too many delays.

My wife and I have tricd to be helpful to the Trent School which our
children attend — Izaline as a teacher (she is a former Shady Hill appren-
tice) and I as a trustee. We have joined the neighborhood Presbyterian
church; I have been a member of the Bar Association’s International Law
Committee. But we have not led a life of extensive contacts, perhaps,
with the children past babyhood we shall have more dinner parties, see
more shows. .

Business activities, for six years concentrated on the “Chunnel,

+
are
now broadening out through a new research company, Technical Proj-

264 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ects, Ltd. On the initiative of this pleasant organization, Hollister Kent
"39, and I recently made a visit to Western Australia where we are to
carry out some surveys. _

The world is still wide, still in need of the inquiring mind and the
instinct for large affairs taught by our years at Harvard. I have been
particularly pleased to notice that so many classmates are enjoying life
more than ever, and that the tragic events which have sometimes marred
the general scene have, in the end, been taken in stride.

MARTIN MORDECAI DAVIDSON

    

HOME ADDRESS: 36 Green Acres Lane, Westport, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Scientific American, Inc., 415 Madison Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: G.A.R. Memorial High School, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., cuz laude, 1939.

marRIED: Edith Jon Elving, Sept. 8, 1946. CHILDREN: Bruce Keith, April 3, 1948;
Grant Richard, May 5, 1949; Craig Warren, May 4, 1952; Abby Jill, May 22,
1957.

occupation: Advertising manager; publishing.

I noted in our Class Album my intention to teach, I never have.
Rather immediately after graduation I accepted an invitation from some
home-town friends to join them in Washington where they had gathered
on Civil Service assignments. I soon learned that a diploma was no substi-
tute for Civil Service rating, While waiting to take an exam and sup-
ported by friends, I found a part-time job doing research and writing for
the Year Book published by the Department of Agriculture (no rating
required). Salary: $10.00 per part-time week. I was launched.

With a desire to try my hand at reporting or writing, I looked for an
opportunity in publishing and joined Broadcasting Magazine late in 1939.
The route was stock room, circulation assistant, rewrite, and copy, and
then outside work covering government agencies concerned with broad-
casting matters. Two years later I was transferred to the New York office
of the publication, continuing in the same general assignment.

Then Pearl Harbor. I had heard the Marines were accepting OCS can-
didates with the only credentials necessary being a college diploma and
a healthy body. A visit to go Church Street, New York City, and the
future 018358 U.S. Marines was a member of the Corps. I was assigned
to Quantico, Virginia, for training in early spring, 1942,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 2 65

After basic, OCS, and the usual round of service schools, | joined the
Fifth Amphibious Corps which was staging at Guadalcanal for a move up
the Solomons to Empress Augusta Bay. Less than a week after joining the
unit, I was aboard combat ship enroute to Bougainville. And there for
the traveler who has seen everything is one of the most beautiful sand
beaches the world over. Following this action, I joined the Third Marine
Division and participated in the Guam and Iwo Jima campaigns, | re-
turned to the States in the summer of 1945 just before the war with
Japan ended, and was assigned duty with the Marine detachment at the
Philadelphia Navy Yard. This was a most fortunate assignment, for it
was in this city that I met the beautiful Edith Jon Elving, who is now
the mother of our four children.

The war over, back to work at Broadcasting Magazine and living with
my wife in Greenwich Village. But what proved to be a critically im-
portant factor in my future took place at the outset of my postwar
career: I was asked to join the advertising sales staff of the magazine. So
I became a salesman. For almost two years I worked in this capacity, en-
joyed the way of life, and was quite successful in selling advertising
space. It seemed that here was that elusive niche that I was destined to
fill.

Early in 1948 a customer-friend mentioned that his nephew had just
joined the management staff of a new group which had assumed owner-
ship and control of the century-old Scientific American Magazine. He
said he was told they were in need of an advertising salesman. I had
never heard of the publication but was looking for greener pastures and
went to see them, On April ist of that year, three days before my first
child was born and a month before the first issue of the now fabulously
successful new Scientific American was published, I joined the original
staff of the neophyte publishers full of the hope of the future.

Those were struggling years, full of uncertainty. The original capital
was exhausted in a few months and new backers had to be found to keep
the enterprise going. Existence was based on month-to-month budgets
with no assurance that next month would see an issue. But we began to
gain acceptance first from readers and more slowly from the advertisers,
and by January, 1950, the magazine finally turned the profit corner and
has prospered handsomely ever since. In those early years, the then ad-
vertising manager and I were the only salesmen on the staff. We traveled
over the country with missionary zeal selling the idea that the technical
community is a market place of ascendant importance in our economy.
Advertising acceptance came slowly but our few initial successes became
a multiplier, and once we had a few important names in our ad pages
others followed. In 1950 I was made assistant advertising manager. In
September, 1952, I was appointed advertising manager. Sales that year
were $670,000. Last year thev reached $4,625,000.

My family ranges from high school junior to first grade, so our in-
terests center about the problems and concerns of grade and secondary
school children growing up faster than we'd like. My eleventh-grader ts
talking Harvard obsessively; but first things first and he would like to
have a car when he becomes eligible to drive next year. We find West-
port to have a most satisfactory educational svstem, and as a matter of
fact moved to this area principally because of the schools,

266 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

We are a modestly traveled family. My work takes me abroad occa-
sionally, and I’ve arranged to have my wife accompany me a couple of
times to England and the Continent. Two years ago the family spent the
summer in San Remo on the Italian Riviera; I joined them for a good part
of the time and we traveled to other countries from this base. That was
a most enriching experience for the children, and my fifteen-year-old
returned on his own to spend the summer in France this year.

In politics, we are a divided family. My wife and I don’t agree on
candidates and parties. I was a registered Democrat through Ike’s ad-
ministration but voted Republican last election, Whether I continue to
do so will depend on the candidate the GOP selects in 1964. What little
time I find from business and family I spend cultivating a range of miscel-
laneous interests, among them a most unbelievably bad game of golf.

KARL MORRIS DAVIES

we

    

HOME Appress: 30 Alpine Lane, Chappaqua, N.Y.

orFice appress: Equitable Life Assurance Society, 1285 Ave. of the Americas,
New York 19, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Washburn High School, Minneapolis, Minn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937, 1938-1940. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1939(40).

MaRRiep: Isabelle Willett Whitehurst, Aug. 21, 1943. CHILDREN: Karl Morris, Jr.,
Oct. 24, 1946; Isabelle Therese, Jan. 27, 1948; Ralph Whitehurst, Dec. 30,
1955.

occupation: Actuary; vice-president, head of underwriting department, Equitable
Life Assurance Society.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Greater New York Safety Council;
member and chairman, Finance Committee, School Board, Kinnelon, N.J.,
1958, 1959, 1960; trustee, Community Church, Smoke Rise, N.J., 1961-62.

MEMBER OF: Society of Actuaries (fellow); Home Office Life Underwriters
Association,

pestications: A number of business discussions published in publications of the
Society of Actuaries and Home Office Life Underwriters Association.

For the past eightcen years my life has becn reasonably typical of the
oft-disparaged New York commuter, It has been a relatively quiet and
stable life but nevertheless very busy, full, and satisfying — no spectacu-
Jar crises or achievements but reasonable success and happiness at home
and in the office. Pve had only one wife and one employer (not counting
Uncle Sam during the war years), and my work has pretry much fol-
lowed the plans | made while in college. I have no regrets.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 267

As head of Equitable’s Underwriting Department I direct the business
activities of some two hundred people in reviewing and processing appli-
cations for life and health insurance. The job offers great challenge to
me as a manager and professionally as an actuary and underwriter. A
real source of satisfaction is the very high caliber of my business associates
at the Equitable and in the actuarial field. A stimulating feature of my
work is the daily contact I have with Equitable’s agents across the nation,
with periodic trips to meet with groups of them.

My home life is complete with a good wife and three fine children.
My eldest child, a senior in high school, is now deeply involved in the
college admission rat-race — appears most interested in a small men’s
college (which excludes Harvard). My biggest problem and frustration
at home is the very small amount of time I can spend with my family —
with all members so busy in so many different ways.

Connecting my office and my home is New York Central’s steel ribbon.
I feel that commuting is maligned and don’t really chafe at the three
hours a day I must spend getting to and from work — this time is rather
well spent reading or sleeping. In July, 1962, we moved from beautiful
Smoke Rise, New Jersey, to our present location primarily to get away
from highway commuting; this has proven to be a worth-while step,

As for community activities —in Smoke Rise I was much involved
from time to time in club activities, a volunteer Fire Department, the
School Board, and the church. Since moving to Chappaqua I have so
far stayed on the sidelines. In New York, however, I am getting in-
terested in the Regional Plan Association. As a vice-president and direc-
tor of the Greater New York Safety Council I am heading a drive for
new corporate members to support the rapidly expanding safety activities
of the Council. I shall welcome inquiries from any classmates in the City,
Westchester, or Long Island whose businesses might be interested in
membership or in guidance from the Safety Council.

FOREST KENDALL DAVIS

   

HOME abpress: Adamant, Vt.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Goddard College, Plainfield, Vt.

PREPARED AT: Nashua Senior High School, Nashua, N.H.; Cambridge High and
Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: a.B., 1939; s.7.8., 1948,

268 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

MARRIED: Elizabeth Browning Herriott, Sept. 2, 1946. cHILDREN: Margaret Victoria
Ann, Sept. 17, 1946; William Kelton Lake, April 30, 1959; Charles Martin
Snow, Jan. 9, 1961; Katharine Kendall Robertson, June 21, 1963 (all adopted).

occupation: Education; dean (administrative) and professor of religion and
philosophy, Goddard College.

OFFICES HELD: President, Old West Church Association, since 1955; chairman,
Calais (Vt.) Town History Committee, since 1959; scribe, The Greenfield
Group, since 1958; president, Precision Paper, Inc., since 1961; chairman,
Adult Programs, New Hampshire-Vermont District, Unitarian Universalist
Association, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Medieval Academy of America; Association for Asian Studies;
National Geographic Society; Vermont Historical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in journals.

Twenty-five years. Well. What became of them ts a fair question.
They have gone by like pleasant dreams. It took nearly twelve to get past
the war and various graduate schools. Thirteen have gone by on the
faculty of Goddard College. These matters appear in earlier Class Re-
ports. The middle years continue to bring new experiences. Our stun-
ning elder daughter has been joined by two bounding little boys and a
winsome new small sister. This kind of thing tends to keep one broke all
the time, as my record of contributions to the Harvard Fund no doubt
shows. But there are compensations that defy description. It is said, you
know, that trees which are constantly buffeted by high winds develop
greater resilience and stronger fiber than those which stand peacefully in
the glades. Call it that we parents are now developing enormous resilience
and iron fiber. Anyone who wishes to see his old house dance till the
china rattles is recommended to add new dimensions to his family. Life
will do the rest without any help from parents. Besides, it is a funda-
mental affirmation for the times when the subtle changes of age come
upon one and when older generations begin to slip away.

Another innovation of the middle years has been an inherited re-
sponsibility for the Harold M. Davis Sheet Leveler, an equipment and
methodology for controlling the levelness of the sheet at the wet end of
the Fourdrinier paper machine. For a teacher in the reflective fields to
find himself precipitated into an old craft industry is bizarre, to say the
least. It adds to one’s perspective if not to one’s patience. In paper, the
problems of change are much like those of textiles a generation or two
ago. Education may be the key to the introduction of new ideas and
technologies, but education does not do things rapidly. In the course of
free-time work in this odd region 1 have amused myself by discovering
the field of industrial philosophy, one approach to which is the search
for the general idea behind the particular situation and the extension of it
to cover additional instances. The paper manufacturing industry nat-
urally prefers to avoid this kind of thing, so we maintain a congenial
stand-off interrupted now and then by courteous potshots of artillery.
Since the Twentieth Anniversary Class Report our family has joined
the annual army of summer campers. Talk about staid middle age — it
is arrant nonsense. A fortnight around the Maritimes; a three-week
circling of the Great Lakes, ggoo miles trans-Canada, down the Pacific

Coast, and eastward across the United States: these have been a succession

of summers, It is a sound dimension, albcic occasionally unsanitary; you

learn a good deal about many things; you find out what you can manage

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 269

to bring off; the camping crowd is highly reliable, and camping doesn’t
cost much, Different ages in the family understandably have different
reactions to it. For oldsters the absence of a telephone is a veritable con-
dition of peace; beautiful teen-agers consider that their social lives are
grievously constricted in the north woods, so they think camping is for
the birds, small boys whoop it up gloriously on the road and then wee
for weeks at bedtimes because they are once more reduced to sleeping
in a house — indeed, for months they insist on sleeping bags on their beds
instead of blankets; and little Kate representing the two-month mob
camps imperturbably from one end of the continent to the other, carry-
ing on normal activities in utter normalcy, graciously permitting the
planet to revolve beneath her in accordance with some irrelevant pattern
of its own.

The teaching I like best to do is by the conference or seminar method
in small groups. Without being doctrinaire about it, temperamentally it
suits me. My own medium of expression continues to be the brief re-
flective essay. I like to get off something now and again and I generally
aim to get it printed. But it can be printed in very smal] magazines and
most such pieces are. Nor, as the years go by, does it seem to matter
whether anyone ever reads them. Mostly nobody does and it is quite
all right. I like the doing of them, the sense of thinking something
through, setting it down in the right form, and getting past it toward
the next interesting thing.

The world is stuffed with interesting things and some tedious things.
College administration reflects just about every human problem, as many
among you have reason to know, One works through most phases of it
in six years and still the learning and the teaching — which are probably
aspects of the same thing — come out ahead in the scales of preference.
But one is never free of administration in this life.

Once in a while I get a harebrained idea for sabbatical study, as for
example a year in mainland China. Everybody is very polite and there
is a lot of correspondence about it. But, of course, nice people aren’t
visiting mainland China just now and there is a certain high-level horror
about the whole thing. So nothing comes of it and the scant ten years we
may have to hold the world together go past apace.

New Englanders, they say, live with one foot in the grave. This is to
say we hold our lifetimes in perspective, remembering their transiencv as
well as the little lasting etchings they may make and the echoes they
may hope to leave bouncing around among their times and places. We
are apt to know who our antecedents were for ten or fifteen generations,
and while this can become stuffy it can also help to keep one’s values and
motivations in effective balance. If you hear the ticking of an old clock,
for 200 years your forebears may have listened to it before you and many
of them were better men than you are. Others will listen to it after you

and if some of these may turn out also to be better men than you, bear
in mind how they come to be so. Kilroy was in there, too, Every man

does not have to be a king and Everyman does amount to something. It
is a fair lesson for the middle years,

TI tei co

270 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

GEORGE MATHEWSON DAVIS +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 120 Maywood Ave., Rochester 18, N.Y.

HOWLAND DAVIS

 

HOME appRESS: 840 Park Ave., New York, N.Y. 10021.

OFFICE appREss: Great Atlantic & Pacific Tea Co., 420 Lexington Ave., New York,
N.Y. 16017.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter,
N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939.

MARRIED: Frances Fabyan, June 15, 1940. cHiLpreN: Howland Shippen, 2d, May
27, 1942: Robert Livingston, June 28, 1944; George Fabyan, Nov. 7, 1946;
Frances Dennie, Sept. 20, 1951.

occupation: Purchasing executive.

OFFICES HELD: Member of board, since 1951, secretary since 1957, Collegiate School;
member of board, since 1954, chairman, executive committee, 1963-64, New
York Institute for the Education of the Blind; member of board, since 1960,
treasurer, since 1960, Association for Homemaker Service.

MEMBER OF: Union Club; Amateur Comedy Club; Edgewood Club of Tivoli; St.
Nicholas Society.

Joined the A&P soon after college and have been struggling against
the rising cost of living for them and for myself ever since. Of more im-
portance have been an enjoyable life with my wife and children and an
attempt to do my share in the educational and welfare fields of the com-

Tse en

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 271

munity. We have always been city apartment dwellers as we could not
face commuting. The boys attended Collegiate and Brooks schools, with
the eldest now at Lehigh, the second in the Army, the third a senior at
Brooks and our daughter at Chapin,

A converted barn on the banks of the Hudson provides an out of town
retreat. Here we enjoy tennis, swimming, canoeing and the great out-
doors with axe in hand or with just a deep sense of well-being. We have
taken several trips usually with some or all children and usually by car to
the Adirondacks, Canada, the South, the West, Bermuda and once to
Europe.

JOHN HANDLEY DAVIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2141 Broadmoor Drive, Seattle 2, Wash.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Marketime Drugs, Inc., 7101 Empire Way, Seattle 18, Wash.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; M.B.A., 1941.
MARRIED: Harriet Maxwell Orr, Feb. 16, 1946. CHILDREN: Anne Maxwell, Nov. 2,
1948; Caroline Hunter, June 27, 1950; John Handley, Jr., March 12, 1953.

OCCUPATION: President, Marketime Drugs, Inc., retail drug chain.

OFFICES HELD: President, Marketime Drugs, Inc., since 1958; partmer, Haskins &
Sells, C.P.A.’s, 1951-58; president, board of trustees, Lakeside School, 1956-
58.

MEMBER OF: University Club; Woodbrook Hunt Club; Seattle Golf Club; Rainier
ub,

After graduation I went to the Business School and studied accounting.
In the Navy I served in the Cost Inspection Service. After the war I
practised accounting until 1958. I specialized in tax work and was the
partner in charge of taxes for the Seattle othce of Haskins & Sells, a
national accounting firm. In 1958 I became the principal stockholder of
Marketime Drugs, a Seattle retail drug chain, and have since served as
president of this company. Recently, 1 merged this business with a
larger chain — Fred Meyer, Inc., of Portland, Oregon. Tam still active
in the management of the combined companies,

As to my family, | had, at last count, one wife, two daughters, one son,
four horses, two dogs and one cat. Our travels have taken us across the
U.S. many times, to Canada, and several times to Hawa. | have vet to
take my wife on her promised trip to Europe. As to the future, | hope

272 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

to spend more time on my hobbies which are horseback riding, bird
shooting, fishing and farming.

Finally, let me sav how lucky we were to be at Harvard in the bottom
of the depression. Few of us could get in now!

MORTON IRVING DAVIS, JR.

    

   

HOME ADDRESS: Brisa 385, Jardines del Pedregal de San Angel, Mexico 20, D.F.,
exico.
OFFICE apprEess: American Refrigerator Products, $.A. Orinoco 78, Mexico 13,

D.F., Mexico.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: $.B., 1939.

marniep: Dorothy Kelleher, Dec. 15, 1942 (divorced 1947); Cecilia Arzac Coppel,
Feb. 3, 1951, CHILDREN: Morton Irving, 3d, May 17, 1945; Jonathan Peter, Aug.
3, 1952; Craig Michael, Dee. 10, 1954; Alison Dominique, May 18, 1959.

OCCUPATION: President and general manager, American Refrigerator Products, S.A.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Ciubs of New York and Mexico City; University Club, Mexico
City; Mexico City Country Club.

After graduation I worked in my father’s firm of C.P.A.’s until 1942.
From 1942 until March, 1946— Army Air Corps. I saw service in the
CBI Theatre with the rgth Air Force. On release was in the record and
music business both in New York and Hollywood.

Late in 1947 I sold my business interests and went to Mexico City. In
1948 I founded my business which has grown, I believe, to be the largest
commercial refrigeration manufacturer in Latin America. Except for two
or three visits each year to the States, | have now lived for sixteen years
in Mexico City. They have been very good years.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 273

RICHARD SIEBE DAVIS

 

HOME AppRESS: 94 Eaton P]., London, S.W. 1, England.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: S.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Phyllis Beckwith, Aug. 20, 1949. cHitpREN: Richard Siebe, Jr., Dee.
25, 1951; Margery Baker, Sept. 25, 1953; John Meigs, Oct. 17, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Art consultant; self-employed; advice in connection with many
types of museum projects including loan exhibitions and related projects in-
cluding commissioning public museums and works of art.

OFFICES HELD: Curator and director of the Museum and Library, Cranbrook
Academy of Art, Bloomfield Hills, Mich., 1940-42; ensign-lieutenant. USNR,
1942-46; member, Arts and Monuments Commission, “Tokyo. 1946: senior
curator, assistant director, director, Minneapolis Institute of Arts, 1946-59;
president, Intermuseum Conservation Association, 1957-58; U.S. Commis-
sioner, V Bienal, Sad Paulo, 1959; visiting expert, U.S. Information Service,
Bonn and London, 1959, 1960; visiting lecturer at numerous academies and
universities in the United States and abroad, 1946-61.

MEMBER OF: Pierpont Morgan Library, New York (fellow); Intermuseum Con-
servation Association, Oberlin; various professional societies; Minneapolis
Club; Woodhill Country Club, Minneapolis; Boodles’, London; ski and
tennis clubs abroad.

PUBLICATIONS: Many articles on painting and sculpture written for the Bulletin
of the Minneapolis Institute of Arts, for exhibition catalogues and_ for
periodicals devoted to art; numerous scripts for educational television; com-
mencement address for publication and television, University of Minnesota,
1957,

Since the end of the war I have spent most of my life in Minneapolis,
developing the Minneapolis Institute of Art, of w hich [am very proud,
and raising a young family, of which I am even prouder. Since the end
of 1959, when I resigned as director of the Institute, E have spent most of
my time abroad, with winters in London, and summers at Forte dei
Marmi in Italy, pursuing the same interests as in Minneapolis, which are
art and the education of our children.

My years with the Institute were as exciting as they were exhausting,
for I had the opportunity of adding to the permanent collection an un-
precedented number of important: paintings and. sculptures. Chasing
masterpieces can be the greatest fun, but securing them through gitt of
purchase constitutes the only lasting contribution which a museum man

‘ gan make. Perhaps dedicate d, surely lucky, | found the work as reward-
ing as it was stimulating.

274. HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

My life during the past five years has been far more relaxing, for the
projects which I undertake as a consultant permit me to combine busi-
ness with pleasure, to ski or swim after the project has been completed
and, above all, to spend many happy hours taking my wife and children
to my favorite haunts in Italy and Greece. We have spent all our Easter
and summer holidays in Italy, where we have found endless resources in
art and sports for all ages and tastes, and we have sailed the Aegean in
the world’s most disreputable garbage scow.

Living in London has given me an opportunity to complete two
fascinating projects with Henry Moore and to conduct seminars for
my European colleagues under the auspices of the U.S. Information
Service. The phenomenal growth of London as a leading art market has

been an expensive proposition for collectors as enthusiastic as Phyllis and
1 are. Our activity in this field continues despite the demands of our
growing family. Fortunately, the English schools are both excellent and
inexpensive. In short, we are sold on English education for boys, but
not girls, and life abroad.

As I write this, we have completed the sale of our house, near Minne-
apolis, and we plan to divide our time, in the future, between New York
City and Europe. We hope to find, in time, another house which will
satisfy us and suit our purposes as much as the now famous house
which we commissioned Philip Johnson to build for us fourteen years
ago. The next projects on the docket are commissions with Marino
Marini, to be combined with a long tour of the ski slopes and a trip to the

Near East, to be combined with a safari in Kenya, before moving to New
York.

ROBERT WOLCOTT DAY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1645 Sunset Plaza Drive, Los Angeles 69, Calif.
orricr, ADDRESS; Ajbert Frank-Guenther Law, Inc., 5723 Melrose Ave., Los Angeles
» Calif.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, DeéCREE: A.B., 1939,

manninp: Joan Thomson, Sept. 22, 1939 (divorced 1958); Ann Biehn, May HL,
1958. cHhinpnen: Caroline April, April 12, 1941: Susan Van Buren, June
29, 1943; Robert Wolcott, 3d, Oct. 286, 1945; Linda Thomson, Aug. 30, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Advertising; vice-president, director of radio and television.

orrices Heap: Television director, H. Bo Humphrey, New York, 1948-49; radio
and TV director, Lynn Baker, New York, 1990; director, 1951, vice-president,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 275

1953, Albert Frank-Guenther Law, New York; village clerk, Sands Point,
Long Island, N-Y., 1953-56.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston, New York and Southern California; Man-
hasset Bay Yacht Club; Sands Point Bath & Tennis Club.

June of 1939 found me working for a small broadcast advertising com-
pany in Boston where I had worked summers and off-time since my
sophomore year. For me, advertising has proved to be a very happy
choice, and twenty-five years later I’m still at it and still enjoying it.

I was married in September of 1939; entered the Navy in 1942, serving
as a radar plot-fighter direction officer. Saw no action, was pretty much
a stateside sailor; am a lieutenant commander in the inactive Reserve.

In early 1946, I jomed John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company
of Boston in advertising and public relations. Three years later, having
decided that television offered a greater opportunity in advertising, went
with H. B. Humphrey Company, Advertising, in New York City, as
television director. In rg950, I became radio and television director for
Albert Frank-Guenther Law of New York, the firm with which I am still
associated.

From 1948 to 1957, I lived in Sands Point, Long Island. Became active
in town government, serving for three years as village clerk. Cruised
Long Island Sound during summers. This period in advertising found me
working with such diverse products, services and personalities as Kup-
linger, Joe DiMaggio, the National Council of Protestant Episcopal
Churches, Buitoni Spaghetti, Western Union, Senator Blair Moody and
“Meet Your Congress,” and Jack Benny.

In 1957, I satisfied a long-time ambition to own a radio station by pur-
chasing WAMYV in St. Louis, which I sold in 1959, having proved to my-
self that absentee ownership plus an overly demanding union can combine
to remove most of the pleasure and profit.

My first wife and I were divorced and in May, 1958, I married Ann
Biehn in Beverly Hills, California. Moved west to Los Angeles in 1961
to head up the Los Angeles office of Albert Frank. As a New Englander
and then a New Yorker, I surprise myself by the enthusiasm I have for
the West.

Aside from brief flurries of enthusiasm for squash, sailing and, more
recently, golf, I’ve had no strong or abiding interest in any of the con-
ventional hobbies, rather have found the greatest pleasure and satisfac-
tion in my work.

Politically, Pd lke to see more Harvard men like Ollie Bolton in
Washington — fewer like Arthur Schlesinger, Jr.; and TP only wish that
Harvard could claim a William Buckley, to keep things a little better in
balance.

276 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

NOBLE DEAN, JR.

   

  
   

  

Fe ENTE

one:

 

ey : Fra sisnints 7
AY | L wi
HOME AppRESS: 7905 Ridge Rd., Indianapolis, Ind. 46240. .

OFFICE aDpRESsS: Dean Brothers Pumps, Inc., 323 W. 10th St., Indianapolis,
Ind. 46207.

PREPARED AT: Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

MARRIED: Ann Noble Johnston, Aug. 5, 1942. cHILDREN: Thomas Benjamin Noble,
Feb, 21, 1946; Margaret Gladding, May 1, 1948.

OCCUPATION: President, Dean Brothers Pumps, Inc., manufacturers of pumping
machinery for industry.

orFices HELD: Director, Indiana Savings & Loan Association of Indianapolis; Hy-
draulic Institute, chairman, executive committee, 1956-57, president, 1958-59;
Contemporary Club (Indianapolis), president, 1960-62.

MEMBER OF: Business and professional organizations: American Society of Mechani-
eal Engineers, Rotary International, American Ordnance Association, Indian-
apolis Chamber of Commerce, Machinery & Allied Products Institute, Delta
Tau Delta Fraternity. Social, civic and cultural organizations (Indianapolis) :
Woodstock Club, University Club, Athenaeum, Dramatic Club, Contemporary
Club, Literary Club, Army-Navy Club.

In June, 1937, I left College to go to work. While my primary in-
terests in College were scientific I lacked a definite career goal and my
father needed my help in his business. The depression years had taken
their toll of his health and vitality. He was principal owner and general
manager of a small manufacturing concern in Anderson, Indiana, and
during the next few years, as | matured to manhood, I came to know him
as a fine man, friend and companion. While this experience has tem-
pered any regrets I may have had for leaving College prematurely I have
never fele that I was a full-fledged, “card-carrying” member of the
Harvard Class of ’39. 1 do claim a right to “Associate Membership”
however.

In April, 1941, I entered military service and subsequently completed
pilot training with the Army Air Force. It was in Selma, Alabama, on
the morning of August 5, 1942, that I received my wings, In the after-
noon of that same memorable day [I married Ann Noble Johnston of
Indianapolis. 1 had been courting her at every opportunity for almost
two years and I count the successful conclusion of this courtship my
single greatest achievement, — a

My overseas experience during World War Il was in North Africa and
the Mediterranean Theatre with the qth Fighter Squadron, s2nd Fighter

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 277

Group. Our outfit was equipped with Spitfires on reverse lend-lease
from the RAF. This experience taught me never to underestimate the
role of chance in the affairs of men.

Ann and I count ourselves fortunate. We have a good home, good
friends and two strong and healthy teen-agers with lots of friends, ideas
and emotions of their own. Tom is in the fender banging stage and
Maggy is blossoming into an attractive young lady. But we are con-
cerned about the future.

We have worked hard to carry out our duties and responsibilities
toward ourselves, our fellow citizens, our state and our nation. We
believe that if we are to enjoy the inalienable rights of free men and pass
them on to succeeding generations we, as individuals, must accept the
duties and responsibilities which these rights impose upon us. Then too,
as we look out upon all the other nations of the earth we must realize
that individual freedom and representative government cannot be granted
or bestowed upon a people who do not have the moral capacity to accept
the duties and responsibilities of free men.

During the last twenty-five years we, as citizens, have increasingly
abrogated our duties and responsibilities as free men to a willing and
ever growing — though beneficent — government. The challenge of the
next twenty-five years is to reverse this trend.

PHILIP DEAN

    

HOME ADDRESS: 67 Pine Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE aDpReESS: Fiduciary Trust Co., 10 Post Office Sq., Boston 5, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: $.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Mary Hope Sweetser, Oct. 6, 1945, CHILDREN: Mary Hope, Oct. 22, 1947;
Anne Lincoln, July 23, 1949; Peter Sweetser, March 6, 1951; Phoebe Williams,
Nov. 8, 1953; Philip, Jr. Dec. 6, 1957,

OCCUPATION: Banking; vice-president and trust officer, Fiduciary Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Brookline Public Library, since 1956; Town Meeting
member, Brookline, since 1958; treasurer, Park Sehool, Inc.; trustee, Adams
House; trustee and assistant treasurer, Boston Home, Ine. member, Ad-
visory Board of Boston Council, Inc, B.S.A. and former treasurer, 1952-61.

MEMBER OF; The Country Club; Somerset Club; Beverly Yacht Club; Kittansett
ub.

After graduation I spent the summer as a “high alticude gigolo” at a

278 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

dude ranch in Sheridan, Wyoming. Returning in the fall, I started my
first job with J.P. Morgan & Company in New York City in their two-
year training program. | look back on this period as one of the most en-
jovable so far in my life. It is a terrific outfit.

In February of 1941, I became a member of the V7 Program and was
assigned to the USS Illinois anchored in the Hudson River in New York
City. After Harvard and a year and a half of business I found it very
difficule to adjust myself to Navy discipline but somehow I was able to
get my commission as an ensign in June and was assigned to PBY Navy
patrol squadron station at Coca Sola, Panama. It was my good fortune to
have an excellent captain, and I did not find the duty too trying. After
fourteen months in the Canal Zone our unit was moved to Guantanamo
Bay, Cuba, where I remained unul February of 1944 when my former
skipper obtained my transfer to his fighter squadron VF 81. In October,
1944, Our unit was assigned to the USS Wasp with the Third Fleet in the
Pacific. This to me was the real Navy. It was an exciting experience
and lasted until April, 1945, when my outfit was transferred back to the
States. I ended my naval career at the Naval Air Station, Otis Field,
Hyannis, Massachusetts. On October 2, 1945, I was detached as a locker
room lieutenant commander and a bachelor. Four days later I was
married to Mary Hope Sweetser, the most wonderful thing that has ever
happened to me.

At this point in my life I had to decide whether or not I wished to raise
a family in New York City. After due consideration I decided to ob-
tain a job in Boston, my home town. On January 2, 1946, I started work
at the Fiduciary Trust Company, a company devoted entirely to the

handling of people’s finances and individual problems, and am still em-
ployed by it as vice-president and trust officer. This, like J.P. Morgan
& Company in 1939 and 1940, is a small organization compared to other
large banks in their respective areas. It is a delightful place to work, and
IT have never regretted my decision to establish my home and business in

Boston,

Our first child was born in October, 1947, and our other four children
over a period of ten years. We have two girls, a boy, a girl and a boy
in that order. I consider myself a very lucky individual as my wife and
children are my prime enjoyment in life. My children are extroverts,
thank God, and full of fun. My wife and I find it difficult to keep ahead
of them and at times we are run ragged, but I would not have it any other
way. We have a summer place in Marion, Massachusetts, where we enjoy
sailing, swimming, tennis and golf. Recently we put in an all-weather
tennis court which has proven a source of great enjoyment to us all, We
have heat in the house and use the place pretty much the year around.

I find that during the winter months it gives us all a marvelous change of

pace to go down on weekends to work and play around the place.

I believe that hard work both mental and physical never hurt anybody.

I am an old-fashioned conservative and believe that a thing is either right

or wrong and that there is no gray area. I have tried to instill in my chil-

dren the courage to stand up for the things they believe in and not to fol-

low the mob just because it is the thing to do. This country was founded

by individualists and we need them now more than ever.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 279

HAMILTON QUARLES DEARBORN

 
   

HOME ApprESS: 46 Wright St., Westport, Conn.
PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m. (Univ.
of Wisconsin), 1940.

MARRIED: Gabrielle Hibbert, 1946. cHiLpren: Josiah, 1947; Laura, 1951.
OCCUPATION: Business:

Have worked in government and business in Washington, London,
Brussels, Paris and, presently, New York. Those who know me will be
able to place me in the spectrum of class statistics as to occupational,
political and other activities and opinions, and as to degree of satisfac-
tion or dissatisfaction with the course of events since 1939. I doubt that
1 should be found beyond the two-sigma limit on any of the curves, and
am perhaps more often within one sigma.

LEONIDAS HARRY DEMETER
z aye ° footie . ses 4

  

‘283

wn Seg) ah inaaininatinn a titanate nineties scokt dt

HOME Apbress: 1] Hemsley Lane, Great Neck, N.Y.

OFFICE avpress: Board of Education, 345 Lakeville Rd, Great Neck, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Hoston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1035-1939. pecenes: a.B., 1939; am. (Ruston Univ, 1th:
Epp. (Columbia Univ.), 1951,

MARHIED: Mary Colivan, Nov. 28, 1946. crino: Anne, Oct, 8 1948,

280 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

occuPATION: Director of information and personnel, Great Neck Public Schools.

OFFICES HELD: President, Long Island School Community Relations Association,
1959-60, National School Public Relations Association, 1962-63; trustee,
Great Neck Symphony Society, 1957-59, Salvation Army Service Unit of
Great Neck, 1960-63; member, board of directors, Great Neck United Com-

munity Fund, 1958-60.
MEMBER OF: American Association of School Administrators; National Education

Association; New York State Teachers Association; National School Public
Relations Association.

Served with U.S. Army, 1941-46. Battery commander with qq5th AA
Battalion assigned to 8th Infantry Division in European Theatre of Opera-
tions and as information and education officer with Third Infantry
Division and Army of Occupation in Germany after the war. Rank of

major.

!

TIMOTHY JOSEPH DENNEHRY, JR. +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 106 Algonquin Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

NICHOLAS DE PALMA

 

HOME ADDRESS: 81] Caldwell Lane, Nashville, Tenn,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1711 17th Ave., S., Nashville, Tenn,
PREPARED at: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mane,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 281

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936, 1937-1940. DEcREES: A.B., 1939(41); a.m. (Boston
Univ.), 1942; Ep.p. (Calvin Coolidge Coll.), 1955.

MARRIED: R. Arline Warren, April 23, 1944. cHiLprREN: Warren Brett, June 19,
1949; Nicholas Barry, July 19, 1951; Niki Eileen, June 5, 1953.

occuPATION: Clinical psychology; chief, Davidson County Hospital, Nashville,
Tenn.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Membership Committee, Tennessee Psychological Asso-
ciation.

MEMBER OF: American, Tennessee and Massachusetts Psychological Associations.

PUBLICATIONS: “Rorschach Combined Location and Record Form”; “Scores of
Alcoholics on the 16 PF Test”; “Professional Ethics for Graduate Students in
Psychology”; “Professional Ethics”; “Another Look”; etc.

I was inducted into the Army Air Force immediately after receiving
my Master’s degree. I was assigned to a psychological research unit
where I met my wife. Immediately after our honeymoon I was un-
ceremoniously dispatched overseas. It was exasperating as all-get-out!
After a public war with the enemy and a private war with the Army, I
was mustered out with a cluster of “good conduct” ribbons and a giddy
notion of joining the Reserves. I tried working for a year but the habit
didn’t take. My wife and I decided to.take advantage of the G.I. Bill of
Rights. For several years we tried simultaneously to complete our educa-
tion, raise a family, and make a million in real estate. To date, we have
been two-thirds successful — the million is still ethereal as ever.

When the Korean War broke out I was called back into the Service but
soon deferred on student status. Incredible as it may sound I incurred a
broken ankle during an intramural football game, the Reserves dropped
all claims on my future warrior potentials.

After my Doctorate I took positions with several hospitals for the
mentally ill, retardates, and alcoholics, I’ve learned to sympathize with
the ill but not equally so with the “normal.” I have resided in Kentucky,
Massachusetts, Delaware, and Tennessee. The family finally came to
roost in a sprawling ante-bellum home built on grounds formerly known
as Hood’s Waste, after the Confederate general whose encampment so
denuded the area that rains soon washed awav the fertile topsoil. The
mansion was purchased cheaply from an agent lacking historical perspec-
tive and continuity. | suppose it is a sad commentary on that aspect of
society which would have leveled the Colosseum to make room for a
housing project.

‘Time has become such ¢ a premium that [am now increasingly impatient
with trivia and purposeless social encounters, What entertainment we do
is strictly informal and extemporancous. There has alwavs seemed to be
something unreal about “formal society”; fundamental values are born
elsewhere where the work is harder. My fannly’s development is a
source of endless pleasure to me. My wife is an excellent manager, Our
children carry the mark of her beauty and the admixture of Italian-
Scotch-Irish-Indian stock, It is usually my children who define my areas
of interest — Boy Scouts, foorball, simple mechanics, movies, bulldogs,
and academic progress, Presently, | am engaged in reviewing Latin, an-
cient history, geography, ete.

My stance in life is reflected in the following conscious attitudes: (1)
an impaticnee with cliches; (2) a belligerent patriotism, (3) an intoler-
ance of bigotry; (4) a need for reviving the old Grecian virtue of wis-

282 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

dom; (5) a renewed appreciation of ancestral “worship” and responsible
aristocracy; and (6) my eternal indebtedness to Harvard for its generos-
ity to me,

* ARTHUR LAWRENCE DERBY, ]R.

 
 

BorN: Feb. 8, 1916, New Orleans, La. parents: Arthur Lawrence Derby, 05,
Jane Barr.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., 1939.
piepD: Killed in action, Dec. 15, 1944, off Philippine Islands.

A member of the Reserve Officers Training Corps at college, Derby
entered the Field Artillery Reserves in the fall of 1940, with the rank of
second lieutenant, and in the summer of 1941 volunteered for Philippine
duty. At Bataan’s fall he was recommended for captaincy and the Silver
Star. After the Battle of Bataan and the death march he was imprisoned
at Camp O'Donnell. He was later evacuated with other Americans in a
Japanese vessel which was sunk off the coast. Derby was posthumously

awarded the Distinguished Service Medal in the fall of 1945. He was
survived by his parents.

FREDERIC FOSTER ve RHAM, JR.

HOME AND OFFICE Appness; Tuxedo Park, N.Y.

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 283

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939.

MARRIED: Frances M. Blagden, March 27, 1942. cui.pren: Frederic Foster, 3d,
Jan. 24, 1943; Michael Meridith, Oct. 29, 1946.
OCCUPATION: Owner, Tuxedo Park Garage.

MEMBER OF: Tuxedo Club; Racquet and Tennis Club and St. Nicholas Society,
New York City.

After 1939 worked with the Fulton Trust Company of New York
until Uncle Sam got me in 1941. Five years later, following one at Fort
Devens, Massachusetts, three at Fort Riley, Kansas, and two touring
Europe, I returned to civilian life and eventually to work for Shell Oil
Company in New York. This lasted five years, after which I decided to
get out on my own and took over management of the Tuxedo Park
Garage which included a Ford agency, repair shop and two service sta-
tions. Still there although activities have been condensed.

Happily married with two fine boys.

THIBAUT MAURICE pe SAINT PHALLE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 417 Park Ave., New York. N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 200 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937, brGREES: A.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1939; Lie.
(ibid.}, 1941.

MARRIED: Rosamond Frame, Jan. 12, 1946 (died Ang. 12. 1960). cHitpren: Fal,
Oct. 13, 1946; Pierre, July 21, 1948; Therése, Jan, 5, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer, business executive and author,

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, vice-president and general counsel, Becton, Dickinson
& Company, 1958-62. director since 1958: trustee, Becton, Dickinson Founda-
tion, since 1959; director, National Committee for an) Effective Congress,
since 1957; member, Committee for Foreign Economic Saidies, Fairleigh
Dickinson University, since 1963; partner, Condert: Brothers. sinve 1902,

MEMBER OF: River Club, Racquet & Tennis Club and Sky Club, New York;
Travellers Club. Paris.

PuBLICATIONS: The Dollar Crisis, Fairleigh Dickinson University Press. January,
1904.

Unlike most of my classmates, | left Harvard ona leave of absence at
the end of sophomore year. After a few months of working in a bank

and going to law school in the evening | was rescued by Columbia which
made it possible for me to finish college and aceclerate daw school So |

284 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

graduated from Columbia Law School in 1941 and thus was able to have
a few months of law practice before a long, enforced absence in the U.S.
Navy. I served in South America, Africa, Sicily, and ended up with a
year and a half behind the lines in China and eventually in command of
ten junks and two thousand men. Also became engaged to a Massa-
chusetts girl who was born in China, spent her life there, and thought
marriage with a leader of coastal forays and colonel in the Chinese Army
might prove exciting.

Unfortunately, life as a law clerk in a large New York law firm at low
wages was quite different, particularly with children coming in rapid
succession: Fal, 1946; Pierre, 1948, Thérése, 1951. In 1950 I became
a partner in Lewis & MacDonald in New York City. In 1952 we opened
a law office in Paris, and I began to spend about a third of my time
there. Then from 1959 to 1962 I left the law to become vice-president
and general counsel and treasurer of Becton, Dickinson and Company
in New Jersey. In 1962 after the company became a public corporation,
I returned to the law as a partner of Condert Brothers in New York but

retained my connection with B-D as a director and outside general
counsel.

Most recently I have been co-authoring a book on economics which is
being published in January, 1964, under the title of The Dollar Crisis
by Fairleigh Dickinson University Press. My work, my writing, and my
attempts to raise three teen-agers in the absence of their beloved mother
who died in 1960 have made time go altogether too quickly. I like to
think, in brief retrospect twenty-five years later, that I have the same avid
curiosity for what the future holds and the same independence of spirit
that I had in 1939. As an American, a Catholic, a Democrat, and a born

Francophile, the world is evidently full of challenges.

RICHARD EDWARD DEUTSCH

SS Se

   

  

Home appress: Cherry Valley Road, Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Products for Industry, Inc., 1704 Summer St., Stamford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass. ,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, pEcrexs: 8.8, 1939; wna. 1941,

mannixp: Katherine Woodruff Sanford, Oct. 22, 1940. cHimpren: David Sanford
Feb. 2, 1943; Judith Anne, July 26, 1944; Richard Woodruff, Feb. 18, 1949.”

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 285

OCCUPATION: President, Products for Industry, Inc., manufacturers of assembly
equipment (assembly benches, conveyors, ete.).

OFFICES HELD: Member, since 1950, clerk of board, since 1960, Board of Estimate
and Taxation, Greenwich, Conn.; director, since 1952, president, 1961, 1962,
Greenwich YMCA; director, since 1959, first vice-president, since 1961, Re-
habilitation Center of Southern Fairfield County; president, Adele R. Levy
Fund, since 1961; director, since 1960, vice-president, since 1962, Connecticut
Higher Education Assistance Corporation; member, since 1955, chairman,
1955 through 1958, Community Council of Greenwich; director, Community
Chest and Council of Greenwich, 1953-63, Trinity College Parents Association,
since 1962, Mount Sinai Hospital, New York City, 1947-52; trustee, Green-
wich Hospital, 1953-56.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Burning Tree Country Club, Greenwich;
Nantucket Yacht Club; Harpoon Club, Greenwich.

After graduation I entered Harvard Business School and received my
M.B.A. in 1941. Kitty and I were married during my second year. A
rather complicated series of circumstances resulted in my attending
M.LT. for eight months to take a course in meteorology sponsored by
the Army Air Corps and in my then becoming an aerological officer
(weather forecaster) in the Navy. I was on active duty four years and
was stationed at the Cape May Naval Air Station, the Navy Weather
Central in Washington, and aboard the USS Ranger on which I was air
operations officer as well as weather man.

After leaving the Service I joined a small, new firm which was started
for the purpose of producing filmed material for television — both pro-
grams and commercials, The venture was shortlived for many reasons
including the fact that it was several years ahead of its time. In 1948 I
went to work for Pavelle Color, Inc, as vice-president and treasurer.
This company was subsequently acquired by Technicolor. Since 1951 I
have headed my own business and am president of Products for Industry,
Inc., Stamford, Connecticut.

David was born a month after my transfer to Washington and Judy
was born five days before I left there for sea duty. After the war we
settled in Greenwich, Connecticut, where we have lived ever since and
where Woody was born. Dave attended Lawrenceville and is now a
junior at Trinity. Judy went to Madeira and is in her second year at
Pine Manor. She decided to go to summer school at Harvard last summer
so for two months I did have a child at Harvard. Woody will finish
Greenwich Country Day School this coming spring and we have just
started on the prep school circuit.

My main activities outside of business have been in community affairs.
Kitty, too, has been very active. I have been involved with several
organizations such as the YMCA and the Community Chest and, as a
Democrat, have held elected office for fourteen years. This work has
been both interesting and rewarding and has led to many close friend-
ships. However, I am now cutting down on these substantial demands
on my spare time,

My autobiographical sketch would not be complete without mention
of Nantucket which my whole family loves. Kitty had spent all her
summers there and introduced me to the Island before our marriage.
We now have a Nantucket home where we try to spend as many weck-
ends as possible during the winter in addition to the usual season when
Iam a weekend commuter until my vacation.

286 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

It has meant a great deal to me to have gone to Harvard. Althov
the College has through the years offered unmatched opportunities ;
academic achievement, I am afraid I did not take advantage of them a
I now regret it. In my case, the lasting effects of Harvard resulted fre
being part of an undergraduate community where no premium ve
placed on conformity. If there 1 is any truth to the saying that “you c
always tell a Harvard man” (1 naturally omit the rest of it), I feel it

because of the freedom he had to shape for himself all aspects of his li
in college.

CLIFTON GEORGE DEXTER +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 38 School St., Warren, Mass.

ROYCE DIENER

 

HOME appRess: 1221 Holmby Ave., Los Angeles 24, Calif

OFFICE appREss: 9465 Wilshire Blvd., Beverly Hills, Calif.

PREPARED AT; Baltimore City College, Baltimore, Md

YEAKS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939.

makniep: Jane Anderson, 1941 (divorced 1943); Phyllis Gainsburg, 1947 (divorced
1960); Wilhelmina Rentmeester, 1963. cistoien: Kobert, April 6, 1948;
Joan, July 23, 1952; Michael, June 6, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Financier.

orrices #eL9: West coast correspondent, A. J. Armstrong (eommercial finance) >

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 287

vice-president, Elektra-Crest A.C., Germany (appliance distribution) ; direc-
tor, Horton & Converse (pharmaceuticals), Electro-Com., Inc. ( electronic
communication), National Commercial Finance Conference, 1955-59; presi-
dent, Rush Engineering, 1948, Northington, Inc., 1949-60, Consolidated
Pacific Corporation, 1954-60; partner, Diener-Hirsch Tungsten, 1954-58;
vice-president, Vicker, MacPherson & Warwick, 1961-62; founder, Committee
for Better Schools, 1958; member, Board of Governors, Registered California,
1950-54, Los Angeles Community Relations Council, 1956-58.

MEMBER OF: Stock Exchange Club of Beverly Hills; Racquet Club of Palm
Springs.

PUBLICATIONS: “A Parting Shot,” Esquire Magazine.

Since leaving Harvard my life has followed a consistent course — con-
sistently different from anything I envisaged twenty-five years ago. I
have had three times as many wives and five times as many vocations as I
had anticipated. From the position of one who never wanted to travel
west of Fifth Avenue, I transmigrated into such a peripatetic existence
that many friends dropped me from their mailing lists because they had
no more room remaining under my name in their address books. After
a brief career with large corporations (Ekco Products in 1940, Reming-
ton-Rand in 1941), I became a flying officer in the Air Force during
World War I, flying thirty-five bombing missions in the Central Pacific
— barely managing to keep myself from being frightened to death — in
return for which the Air Force bestowed two Distinguished Flying
Crosses and some other minor decorations. In August, 1945, I was the

“eyes only” operations duty officer for the Hiroshima atomic bomb drop,
and thereafter, while trying to figure out how to declassify my secret
knowledge (which the Russians already possessed), the Air Force brought
me back to Washington as liaison officer to the Department of Commerce
& War Assets Administration.

As a civilian in 1946 I spent a year as general manager of a factory in
Pennsylvania, then moved to California. Then followed a career in which
I was involved as chief executive in a number of companies in the manu-
facturing, mining and financial fields. In 1960 after encountering some
temporary business reverses, I settled into the financial and investment
banking field, primarily engaging in the arrangement of funding and
acquisitions in the U.S. and Europe. I find this activity varied and reward-
ing with the added bonus that it offers a freedom of time and movement
which makes possible the enjoyment of what the world has to offer.

Politically, although I tend to vote for the man, | would sav Tam a
liberal Democrat, and my contacts outside the U.S. reinforce this view-
point. As for religion, my respect for the other fellow’s faith remains high
—in fact, L envy him for his faith — bur I cannot align myself formally
with traditional religion. F.ver since secing a fellow Harvard man spin
down into the Pacific off Saipan, for whom the memorial service con-
sisted of putting the gear of his empty tent into a duffel bag, PE have
not been able to accept, for example, a church funeral service — and this
attitude has extended itsclf to disinrerest in all forms of organized wor-
ship. This stratified iconoclastic attitude in no way indicates a general
cynicism on my part; faith of a different sort — bur faith, nevertheless —
is inescapable in the face of a strong ascendaney of worldwide reypect
for the dignity of the individual,

For me, and my beautiful Dutch wife (naturally, her name is Wilhel-

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

288 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

mina Fredericka), the good life consists of weekends at our beach h

in Malibu (no shoes or neckties allowed from Friday night until °
morning), very little mass socializing, our own cooking and wi
stays in little towns with friendly people and poor phone service i
Puerto Vallarta, Mexico; Pietra Ligure, Italy; and Gruenewald, Bay Ike
If, as it seems, I have now learned what I want out of life, the avatia,
tional process has taken nearly twenty-five years. Uca~

nes, and

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN DILLINGHAM

PORE NA ORME PET INALIETS O aa
: P

  
  

Seat SR ngy
oe
=

   

y 14 z fo ge oS & i
y % ~ “ 84
. “y 2a i Sy a a
: : + j go ns “
< = a a 7

HOME ADDRESS: 3227 Diamond Head Rd., Honolulu, Hawaii 96815.
OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 3468, Honolulu, Hawaii 96801.

PREPARED AT: FountainValley School, Colorado Springs, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: S.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Frances Andrews, April 26, 1941. CHILDREN: Ceseli, Nov. 19, 1942; Ben-
jamin Franklin, 3d, May 23, 1945; Gay, May 23, 1948; Lorie, Sept. 22, 1958.

HARVARD SON: Benjamin Franklin Dillingham, 3d, ’67.

OCCUPATION: Senior vice-president and director, Dillingham Corporation, in
charge of personnel and public relations.

OFFICES HELD: Republican member, Board of Supervisors, City and County of
Honolulu, 1946-48; Republican Senator, Third District, Territory of Hawaii,
1948-56; member, board of governors, Iolani School; executive board mem-
ber, Boy Scouts of America; trustee, Hawaii Heart Association; member,
Wing Advisory Council, Hawaii Wing, Civil Air Patrol; vice-president and
director, Better Brands, Ltd., Retlaw, Dillingham Investment Corporation,
all in Honolulu.

MEMBER OF: Pacific Club, Honolulu; Pacific-Union Club, San Francisco; Honolulu
Lodge No. 409, F. & A.M.; Native Sons of Hawaii; American Legion; Vet-
erans of Foreign Wars of the U.S.; Military Order of the World Wars; New-

comen Society of England in North America; Harvard Clubs of New York
and Hawaii; A.D. Club.

After graduation I went to an ROTC military camp at Fort Ethan
Allen, Vermont. I was commissioned a second licutenant in the Field
Artillery Reserve. Then I went to Europe for a month, 1 was in London
when Britain declared war on Germany and returned home on the last
American ship to leave Southampton before the war actually began.

After spending a few months with an auditing firm, 1 joined the
Oahu Railway and Land Company in 1940 as a freight clerk. In April
of 1941, married Frances Andrews of New York City and on December
ath of that year I was called into the Army, I was assigned to the Trans

Use

- 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 289

ortation Division and had a hand in the development of cargo and

assenger control under the military governor of Hawaii. This effort
vas concerned with the turn-around of convoys in the Port of Honolulu.

[ served in this joint command until the summer of 1943 when the
Army Port and Service Command was established and I was attached
to the staff. This command was responsible for port battalion training
and the handling of supplies for forward areas. In June of 1944 I took

art in the invasion of Saipan, attached to Heavy Artillery. My mission
was to observe Janding force capabilities under fire so plans could be
prepared for the invasion of Japan scheduled for 1945. After my return
from Saipan, I was attached to the Transportation Division of Army
Forces Pacific, serving in a staff capacity until my release in February

f 1946.

° I Poturned to the railroad as assistant to the general manager. In 1947
1 was named assistant general manager and in 1948 I became general
manager. I remained in that position until January 1, 1961, when the
railroad was merged with the Hawaiian Dredging and Construction
Company. I became senior vice-president of the newly-formed Dilling-
ham Corporation, which drew together the HD&C and several other
firms.

In the fall of 1946 I ran as a Republican candidate for the Board of
Supervisors of the City and County of Honolulu. I was elected out-
right in the primaries. After two years I was elected to the Senate of
the Territory of Hawaii. I was re-elected in 1952, serving a total of eight
years. In February, 1959, | became chairman of the Oahu County Com-
mittee of the Republican Party. I served two years and then became
finance chairman of the State Central Committee. In 1962 I ran as a
Republican for the U.S. Senate; it turned out to be a Democratic year.
In 1963 I was elected Republican National Committeeman for Hawaii.
During much of this time I served also as Wing Commander for the
Hawaii Wing, Civil Air Patrol. This service lasted for fourteen years.
Iam an Episcopalian and since 1939 have been a trustee of Tolani School,
an Episcopal boys’ school. I also am a Mason and a Shriner.

EDWARD THOMAS DOBBYN, JR.

    

HOME Avoness: 1006] Valdez Drive, Tarzana, Calif,

290 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

OFFICE ADDRESS: Consultant & Designers, Inc. 6461 Sunset Blyvd., Hollywood
Calif. 90028. ,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: 5.B., 1939; M.B.A., 1952.

MARRIED: Irma A. Wall, Feb. 14, 1942. cHiup: Edward Thomas, 3d, March 24,

OCCUPATION: Manager, Western Division, Consultants & Designers, Inc., technical
services firm.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; Harvard Business School Club
of Southern California; Defense Supply Association; Gaslight Club.

Upon graduation from Harvard, I was commissioned an ensign in the
Supply Corps of the U.S, Navy. After a year at the Naval Finance and
Supply School in Philadelphia I was transferred to the battleship fleet
in the Pacific where | visited all the west coast ports and the Hawaiian
Islands during the prewar period.

During World War Il, I participated in both the Normandy and
Southern France invasions as a supply officer of the USS Texas. From
the end of World War I] through the Korean War, I was logistics officer
on the staff of the Commander, Amphibious Forces, Atlantic Fleet, the
director of research and development and special projects officer of the
Navy’s Bureau of Supply and Accounts in Washington, D.C., and later
the director of management planning and subsequently the director of
purchasing at the Electronic Supply Office, Great Lakes, Illinois. From
mid-1955 to 1957 1 was logistics officer on the staff of the Commander,
Service Force, Sixth Fleet in the Mediterranean. During this period our
home was Cannes, France, on the Riviera from where our family traveled
extensively through Europe and the various Mediterranean ports, includ-
ing such places as Ismir, Turkey; Athens, Greece; Valencia and Barce-
Jona, Spain, the Balearic Islands, Rome, Naples, Milan and Sicily.

After this duty, we returned to Washington, D.C., where I became
the executive assistant to the director of planning, Bureau of Supplies
and Accounts. The summer of 1959 I became the director of one of the
divisions in the recently formed Armed Forces Supply Support Center,
which was the forerunner of the Defense Supply Agency. While here I
became the Department of Defense Delegate to the NATO Panel on
Codification which met in Paris twice yearly. In addition, there were
numerous orientation visits to various NATO countries including the
Netherlands, Norway, Germany, etc. In October of 1961 I became the
deputy commander of the recently established Defense Logistics Service
Center, my last service assignment. I was awarded the Navy Commenda-
tion Medal for my efforts here.

On January 31, 1963, 1 retired as a captain from the U.S. Navy to
enter private business. It was at this point that I accepted a position as
the manager of the Western Division of Consultants & Designers, Inc.
(one of the largest suppliers of technical services in the United States),
with an office in Hollywood, California.

My political convictions are unquestionably on the conservative side,
and as a voter | would definitely be categorized as an independent. I have
a latent desire to do something about the apathy of our average citizens
toward participating in the affairs of government which have such an
impact on their daily lives as well as their pocketbooks,

Photography is my principal hobby because it is through the lens of

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 291

a camera that I feel I learn most about the era, the people and the beauty
of the world about us.

At present, my social life is going through a change from a Navy and
Diplomatic service orientated one to a civilian industry tvpe. I find both
equally interesting and satisfying. My old Harvard friends are greatly
simplifying the transition.

We're building a home on the side of the Santa Monica mountains
and we’re looking forward to a settled happy life as civilians.

BERNARD HERBERT DOBRUSIN

    
 

  

* +

HOME ADDRESS: 524 E. 20th St., New York 9, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Associated Hospital Service of New York, 80 Lexington Ave.,
New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lynn English High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Ruth Barth, June 9, 1945. cuipren: Robert. Nov. 21, 1947: Joseph. May
29, 1949; Linda, Feb. 15, 1951; Marilyn, Oct. 6, 1952; Richard, July 28, 1957.

OCCUPATION: District sales manager, Associated Hospital Service of New York
(Blue Cross) and United Medical Service, Inc. (Blue Shield); licensed agent
for Health Service and Medical Indemnity of America, Inc., New York State.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Long Island.

WILLIAM REDDIE DODGE +

LAST MAILING Annness: 433 E. 51st St, New York, NOY. 10022,

292 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

FRANCIS STEPHEN DOHERTY ¢

 
  

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 793 E. Fourth St., South Boston 27, Mass.

JOHN THOMAS DOLAN

SEN TORTI rn oa 7}

. Lethe te

  

HOME ADDRESS: 69 Pinewood Rd., Needham 92, Mass.

OFFICE apbpress: Raytheon Company, Wayland, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREE: 4.B., 1939,

makkixD: Jeanne M. Love, Aug. 21, 1954. cHitpreN: John Frederick, Aug. 10,
1955; Thomas Edward, Jan. 8, 1957; Robert Paul, Oct. 29, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Accounting manager, Raytheon Company, electronics, engineering
and manufacturing.

Member: National Association of Accountants; Managers Club of Wellesley, Mass.

The years since graduation have passed at what seems to be a rapid
pace. After a couple of adventures in local jobs, 1 went to work for the
Corps of Engineers in early 1940 under the pre-Pearl Harbor defense
activiry. My cask was cost control on various Army construction proj-
cets, building first encampments at Fort Devens, Camp Edwards and
other major forts all over New England and New York, and then con-
struction of fortifications along the coast.

After two years of that, I entered the Army and spent three years in
the finance department, most of it in North Africa and Italy as deputy

4

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

disbursing officer with mobile finance units, After participating 1n
campaigns up the Italian peninsula 1 returned to Massachusetts
joined Raytheon Company to assist in the settlement of their multit
of war contracts.

[ have remained with Raytheon since 1946, progressing through m
and varied financial and control functions to my present position
accounting manager of the Wayland Engineering Laboratory of
company.

After fifteen years of surveying the field, I married in 1954, and w
my wife and three sons am enjoying the life of suburbia to the utm
The usual Little League, Cub Scout and PTC activities manage to k
us active along with golf, bowling and swimming.

Aside from three terms on the board of directors of a local commun
club, my political activity has been of the passive variety. I am norma

Republican, unless an outstanding Democrat is a candidate for a p
ticular office which is being contested.

In general, with the world circumstances as they stand today, I:

happy with my status. My ulcer is under control, my family is well a
happy, and I am at peace with the world.

JOSEPH CHARLES DONNELLY

aor

Po Re ea mpm ES oN Pa

 

     
  

Sal |
fe \
t J
| ,S 4

* . Ral i

   

HOME ADDRESS: 51 Massachusetts Ave., Walpole, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Public Buildings Service, General Services Administration, Boston,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Walpole High School, Walpole, Mass.; Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936, 1937-1940. pEGREES: a.B., 1939(40); tus. (George
Washington Univ.) , 1951.

MARRIED: Rose Marie Walukevich, April 8, 1956. cHILDREN: Joseph Charles, Jr.,
May 23, 1957; John Thomas, Oct. 28, 1958.

occuPATION: Attorney — U.S, Government; member of the bar, Supreme Judicial
Court of Massachusetts, U.S. District Court, U.S. Circuit Court of Appeals.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Town of Walpole Board of Zoning Appeals; lieutenant
colonel, U.S. Air Force Ready Reserve; member, New England Track and
Field Officials Association (officiate at major A.A.U. intercollegiate and inter-
scholastic track meets in Boston and New England area).

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, Norfolk County and Boston Bar Associations; Harvard
Alumni Association; Harvard Varsity Club; George Washington University
Alumni Association: Andover Alumni Association; Lt. Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr.

294 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Post, Veterans of Foreign Wars (charter member) ; Thomas H. Crowley Post,
American Legion, Walpole, Mass.; Society of the First Infantry Division;
Boston Athletic Association; Catholic Alumni Sodality of Boston; B.P.O.E.;
Knights of Columbus,

After World War II, 1 went to Washington, D.C., and worked in the
Post Office Department going to George Washington University School
of Law evening sessions and receiving my law degree in 1951.

I then returned to Boston where I worked in the Office of the Regional
Controller of the Post Office Department until 1960. Since that time I
have been with the Public Buildings Service of the General Services
Administration.

My wife, the former Rose Marie Walukevich of East Walpole, Massa-
chusetts, is a registered nurse, a graduate of Boston City Hospital School
of Nursing and formerly assistant superintendent of nurses at Norwood
Hospital.

I have two boys: Joseph Charles, Jr.— “Joey” — age six, and John
Thomas — “Jackie” — age five. Joey just started school this year and
is in the same first grade room in the George A. Plimpton School here
in Walpole that I was in as first-grader forty-one years ago!

Hobbies include all sports, especially track and field in which I offici-
ate at practically all the Harvard meets, thus giving me a chance to
“re-live my college days for a couple of hours,” and other intercollegiate
and big indoor meets in Boston.

During World War II, I was with Headquarters of the First Infantry
Division for a total of three vears — in the United States, then to England,
the invasion of North Africa, and Tunisian campaign, and the invasion
and campaign in Sicily. Then I returned to North Africa where I be-
came executive officer of the Fifth Base Post Office in Oran, Algeria,

for about a year and a half and then to Caserta, Italy, Allied Force Head-
quarters, as an army postal inspector for another year — a total of almost
six years in the Army. I have kept up my interest in the Reserves and
am now a lieutenant colonel in the U.S, Air Force Ready Reserves.

FRANCIS JAMES DONOVAN, JR.t

? am

‘ ~~

 

LAT MAILING ADDKESS: 60 Crescent PL, Shert Hills, NJ.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 295

SIDNEY DORFMAN

ee Ee eR TE NON ETD
5. * :

Foc Thad

4
g
#
‘g

   

aN

HOME ApprEss: 1206 N. Amalfi Drive, Pacific Palisades, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 9460 Wilshire Blvd., Beverly Hills, Calif. 90212.

PREPARED AT: Taylor Alderdice High School and Kiski Preparatory School, Pitts-
burgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; ti.B., 1943.

MARRIED: Sarah Cauman, Radcliffe ’39, Sept. 14, 1944. cHitpREN: Anne, May 6,
1949; Frances Elizabeth, April 5, 1951; Harry Mark, July 25, 1956; Phillip
Leopold, Sept. 25, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; general practice.

Sidney Dorfman: I have been trying to understand life the way
Cezanne was trying to understand apples. I think I’m getting it.

Mrs. Sidney Dorfman: You might call this the Rosetta Stone of Sidney
Dorfman — his version and mine of his twenty-five years since gradu-
ation. It is probably a tribute to the comparative serenity of our life that

in retrospect it has seemed a remarkably short period. On the other
hand, the frenetic character of the daily schedule has caused the counse-
lor to appoint me his scribe and interpreter. Examination, cross-examina-
tion and re-direction, in an effort to capture from this former philosophy
major distillations of the insight and wisdom that come with experience,
have not elicited much that is printable. Early one morning my persist-
ence made him throw up his briefcase for a shield, bend his body into
the storm, and forge through the front door muttering to the children,
“Beware flaming arrows!” But that night, having navigated neatly
through the hazards, he merely commented, “It’s a battle of wits,” and
again, “I’m the buccaneer’s friend,” which would surely not be appre-
ciated by the respectable corporations and individuals he represents.

These conclusions follow upon a career that, chronologically, has in-
cluded shipbuilding; clerking for the Hon. Francis J. W. Ford, U.S.
District Court, Boston; early years with Loeb and Loeb, Los Angeles,
California; teaching law at Southwestern University, Los Angeles, Cali-
fornia; and then his own law practice. I have some admiring words to
say about him as a parent (all the noses have been directed towards
Harvard and Radcliffe), a provider and a friend, not necessarily of
buccaneers. For relaxation he has attacked photography with the same
whirlwind force he brings to the battle of wits; haunts football and
Dodger games; is Commissioner of the Roller Derby; and is a perennial

296 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

medievalist and student of philosophy, Shakespearian mysteries,
World Wars, art and science,

I think perhaps we have confounded Whitehead, whom Sid long <
quoted to me: “At the heart of the nature of things there is always 1

dream of youth and the harvest of tragedy.” There have been thor
but it has been a good harvest.

JOBN GEORGE DORSEY t

 

LAST MAILING appREssS: 1785 Logan Ave., S., Minneapolis 5, Minn.

PETER LEEMING DOUGLAS

     

i? cn

L}

HOME apprgss: 8018 N. Michigan Ave., Glendora, Calif.

OFFICE aDorEss: Brown Citrus Machinery Corp., P.O. Box 470, Whittier, Calif.

PREPARED aT: Catalina Island School for Boys, via Avalon, Calif.; Berkshire
School, Sheffield, Mass.

YPARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B. 1939.
MARKED: Alice Frost, Oct. 4, 1947. CHILDREN: Erie Frost, Aug. 23, 1950; Penelope

Alice, June 17, 1952; Jonathan Fisher, Nov, 24, 1953; William Blackburn,
Jan. 22, 1963.

accuraTion: Chief chemist, Brown Citrus Machinery Corporation.
MEMBER OF: Institute of Food Technologists; American Orchid Society.
pusLicaTions: Patent No. 2,799,218,

\—

Ala aki, ee NS Ni ai

 

I spent the summer of 1939 at the Marine Biological Institute at Woods

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 297

Hole, then went to Brazil, where I studied marine biology at the Oswaldo
Cruz Institute in Rio de Janeiro when I wasn’t exploring the country. I
returned to the United States in December, 1940, and was promptly
drafted. The Army took me to Australia, New Guinea and the Philip-
pines and kept me occupied in various laboratories and field assignments
dealing mostly with mosquitoes. I was discharged in the fall of 1945.

For the next five years I tried to amass a fortune with no success, and
in 1950 returned to lab work in the California processing industry, where
I am still happily occupied.

We live in a pleasant house overlooking the San Gabriel Valley, with
plenty of room for children and dogs. I spend my Icisure hours raising
a variety of orchids and building model steam engines.

WILLIAM ALEXANDER DOUGLAS, Il

    

HOME appress: 803 Columbia St., South Pasadena, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2242 N. Figueroa St., Los Angeles 65, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1938; Aa.M., 1940.

MARRIED: Katherine Stewart Hall, Jan. 25, 1941. CHILDREN: Constance, Jan. 27,
1944; Mary Stewart, July 18, 1947; Katherine Alexander, June 10, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Consulting engineer and president, MIRA Corporation, Los Angeles,
Calif.

MEMBER OF: American Geographical Society; Bromeliad Society; Instrument
Society of America; Harvard Club of Southern California; Town Hall (Los
Angeles) ; Valley Hunt Club.

After leaving Harvard in 1940 I found myself (a) in love; (b) a junior
mathematician without a job; and (c) somewhat too asthmatic to interest
Uncle Sam. By 1941 these conditions had been resolved, and I was (a)
happily married (and still am) and (b) employed as a research mathe-
matician (i.e., at that time one who was presumed able to add) by a
large aircraft company.

Work proved interesting, and by the end of the war I had completed
a metamorphosis into an engineer, and somewhat later felt able to open
a consulting office dealing with the problems of turbo-machinery, in
which I am still active.

Still later I became interested in the MIRA Corporation, a small firm
which designs and manufactures specialized electronic and medical
equipment, and this is where most of my effort is now spent.

298 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

While these professional matters were developing, so was my family
of three charming daughters, and it has been an almost constant joy to
be with them as they have developed. We have had many enjoyable
trips and experiences together and look forward to many more.

Our long-term plans include the possibility of a country place out of
the smog (we have been through one, which didn’t quite work), and,
of course, more trips. One regret is losing touch almost completely with
eastern friends, and I hope some day this can be remedied.

FRANK LEO DOWNEY, JR.

 

Born: Feb. 7, 1917, Philadelphia, Pa. PARENTS: Frank Leo Downey, Rose Reilley.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREE: a.B., 1939(40).

MARRIED: Sally Wheeler. cHmpREN: Sally; Peter.

pIED: Nov. 28, 1948, Union, Maine.

During World War II Downey served as first lieutenant in the Marine
Corps, participating in the battle of Tarawa. For a short time after the
war he was head of a Veterans’ Service Center in Portland, Maine. At
the time of his death in an automobile accident, he was a salesman for
a Portland firm. He was survived by his wife and children.

* ROSCIUS IRVING DOWNS, JR.

ats, Wika al

Ba

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 299

porN: May 2, 1917, Riverside, N.J. PARENTS: Roscius Irving Downs, Mabel
Curtiss.

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Mildred Klauder, August, 1940. cHiLp: Susan, Dec. 12, 1943.

pimp: Lost at sea, Aug. 30, 1944, off the coast of England.

Following graduation Downs was employed by the Pennsylvania Rail-
road. In March, 1943, he joined the Navy as an ensign and was assigned
to the Harvard School of Communications from which he graduated with
top honors. As lieutenant (j.g.) he was assigned as communications officer
aboard several Merchant Marine ships making the trip across the North
Atlantic. On August 30, 1944, his ship struck a mine off the coast of
Liverpool, England. He was survived by his wife and daughter.

LEONARD HUNTRESS DOWSE

4
4
i
* 3
i
3
4
4
zg
|
a

 

HOME ADDRESS: 87 North Ave., Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dwight Rudd & Co., Inc., 176 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938.

maRRIED: Amy Porter Ranney, Feb. 2, 1946. cHiLpreN: Dudley Cunningham,
June 25, 1943 (stepson) ; Leonard Huntress, Jr., Jan. 29, 1947; Diana Huntress,
Jan. 3, 1950; James Porter, May 9, 1952; Robert Wellington, Dec. 7, 1953.

occupation: General insurance; vice-president, Dwight Rudd & Co., Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Weston Finance Committee, 1954-58, chairman, 1958-61;
member, Board of Selectmen, Weston, Mass., 1961-64; member, executive
board, Massachusetts Insurance Brokers’ Association, 1940; member, Cen-
tennial Committee, Boston YMCA, 1956; Vestry, St. Peter’s Episcopal Church
of Weston, 1953; Council, Browne and Nichols Alumni Association, 1963.

MEMBER OF: Union Club of Boston.

A keen interest in the world around me has made these twenty-five
years pass — to coin a new phrase — like greased lightning.

At the end of my junior year I left college to take care of my father’s
insurance business. It has been my occupation ever since. It is a satisfying
one, dealing with people, in which the raw material may be their prob-
lems and the product a suitable solution. Since 1949 I have been in the
firm of Dwight Rudd & Company in Boston as vice-president. A gen-
eral insurance business is conducted for both personal and commercial

300 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

accounts. Not long after the formation of the corporation, Classmate
C. Haven Ladd joined the firm.

Shortly after the fall of France in June, 1940, I joined the Massachusetts
National Guard as an artilleryman. The next January we were called
into federal service for what was naively called “a year of active duty.”
Five years later to the day, I was separated from the service as a captain.
Meantime I had received my commission at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, in July,
1942, and immediately went to a newly-formed Infantry division in
Oregon. Eighteen months later we were ready for combat and shipped
to North Africa. From there we went on to combat in the mountains
of Italy for the duration of hostilities. Oliver Wendell Holmes wrote
home to his parents in 1863 that “War is organized boredom.”

In February, 1946, I married Amy Ranney Cunningham and settled
in my native town of Weston, Massachusetts. We have had a full and
busy life bringing up five children. The last five summers we have spent
in Belgrade, Maine, our only regret being that we did not go there
sooner. There we have a chance to unwind a bit, get a better perspective
of values, enjoy ourselves and the beauty of our surroundings. We are
still living in Weston, Massachusetts, during most of the year, in my old
family house which recently had its two-hundredth anniversary.

An interest in the functioning and problems of government at a local
level manifested itself by my serving for several years on the Weston
Finance Committee, the last two as chairman. More recently I have
been serving as a Selectman of the Town. The principal fascination in
doing this, as in any endeavor, is the constant searching out for a better
solution to the many problems which we face.

Whenever time permits me to read I tend to gravitate toward Ameri-
can historical works. My greatest literary accomplishment has not been
as an author, but rather as an absorbed reader of Douglas Southall
Freeman’s George Washington.

My political convictions are somewhat to the left of McKinley but
somewhat to the right of the man who was president while we were in
college. I hesitate to pontificate to my learned classmates; however, I
am fairly concerned over the fiscal frivolity of our government. My
great hope is that we are making this a better world in which to live.

JOSEPH THEOBALD DOYLE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 301

HOME ADDRESS: Font Grove Road, Slingerlands, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Albany Medical College, Albany, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Providence, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; M.D., 1943.

MARRIED: Sarach Elizabeth Thompson, Dec. 26, 1944. CHILDREN: Sheila Thompson,
Sept. 21, 1945; Michael Kedian, March 13, 1947.

occuPATION: Physician; professor of medicine and head of subdepartment of

cardiovascular medicine, Albany Medical College and Albany Medical Center
Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Albany Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Publications related to human cardiovascular physiology and
cardiovascular epidemiology.

Following graduation from medical school early in 1943 I interned
briefly on the Second and Fourth (Harvard) Medical Services at the
Boston City Hospital before being whisked into the Army. Most of my
time was spent as a GI psychiatrist in lowa. While on temporary duty on
Long Island I met a Red Cross field supervisor whom I married shortly
afterwards. My military career was abruptly halted by retirement in
October, 1945, because of what was presumed to be tuberculosis. We
rusticated for the next year and a half in the mountains of western North
Carolina where I worked part-time in a community hospital. In 1947 we
returned to Boston where I finished out as assistant and chief resident at
the City. I had been much impressed by the new concepts of human
cardiac physiology developed in the preceding several years in Atlanta,
and for that reason in 1949 got a job as a rather elderly research fellow in
the Department of Physiology at Emory University School of Medicine
with Jim Warren. The three years in Atlanta were immensely profitable.
In 1952 I moved with Warren to Duke. Not long afterwards, however,
the opportunity to set up and to direct a unique study of degenerative
cardiovascular disease presented itself in Albany, and I have since been
here at the Albany Medical College. This is essential clinical research,
but it is slow, laborious and not very glamorous. Fortunately there are
more adventurous interludes: I accompanied Ancel Keys on one of his
Italian junkets, participated in circulatory studies on the giraffe in the
Transvaal and in similar but more extensive studies on cows in sundry
barns, abattoirs and laboratories in this country and will soon, I hope,
take part in studies at Pensacola on the simian cerebral circulation. I
have been in charge of cardiology at the Albany Medical College and
the associated hospital for the last several years. This involves the usual
amount of paper work, teaching and some consultative practice. My rec-
reational reading consists mainly of the book reviews in the SRL. I was
on the sports car kick for some time, but with a daughter in Sarah Law-
rence it’s now a Falcon. I golf or ski when I can. I split my ballot
regularly. °

302 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

WALDO LINCOLN DRESSER t

x

 

HOME ADDRESS: 214 Buckminster Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dreyfus, Rice & Gretter Insurance Agency, Inc., 80 Broad St.,
Boston 10, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Denise Sessyms, July 25, 1944 (divorced 1954); Rosalind Finkel, Oct. 3,
1954. cHiLpREN: Sylvia, March 1, 1947; Nicholas, Oct. 1, 1948; Peter Edward,
Nov. 1, 1957; Andrew Carl, Oct. 23, 1958; Anthony, Sept. 11, 1961.

occupation: General insurance broker, treasurer.

OFFICES HELD: Board member, since 1941, president, 1948-49, treasurer, 1956-62,
Urban League of Greater Boston, Inc.; board member, Boston Municipal Re-
search Bureau, 1949-53; commissioner, 1958-60, vice-chairman, 1960, Boston
City Planning Board; board member, Epilepsy Information Center, Inc., since
1960; member, Mayor’s Minority Housing Committee, since formation, 1963;
member, Citizens Advisory Committee to the Boston Redevelopment Authority,
since formation, 1963.

MEMBER OF: Insurance Brokers Association of Massachusetts, since 1950.

I have lived in Boston all my life, except for bricf periods during
World War II. Always an insurance broker, 1 am now co-owner of a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 303

small agency, soliciting business and personal accounts and handling
financial aspects of office routine.

Married for the second time, I have three small children, as well as
two charming adolescents from my first marriage. All five get together
for the summer in Marblehead.

Besides family and business, my most absorbing interests are tennis,
gardening and civic affairs. Participation in the National Urban League

program has lead to many activities concerned with race relations and
city planning.

* DAVID LOWELL DRISCOLL

 

BORN: March 3, 1917, Lead, S.Dak. parents: Robert Edward Driscoll, M.3.a.,
14, Mary Fearon.

PREPARED AT: Lead High School, Lead, S.Dak.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938.
DIED: Killed in action, July 30, 1945, at Guam.

After leaving college, Driscoll returned to South Dakota, worked in
his father’s bank for one year and then attended the University of
California where he graduated with honors in music. In 1940 he enlisted
in the U.S. Navy as an apprentice searnan, was assigned to Officers Train-
ing School, graduated, and was sent aboard the USS Phelps. He saw
action in the Aleutian campaign, was wounded and returned to the
United States. He was later assigned to the USS Indianapolis and was
killed in action when that ship was sunk in the Philippine Sea.

304 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

THOMAS DAVID DUANE

r

   

HOME appress: Bedminster, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jefferson Medical College, Philadelphia 7, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Spalding Institute, Peoria, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: S.B., 1939; m.p. (Northwestern Univ.),
1943; s.m. (ibid.), 1944; pup. (State Univ. of Iowa), 1948.

MARRIED: Julia Ann McElhinney, M.D., March 22, 1944. curtpREN: Alexa, Aug. 1,
1945; Joseph McElhinney, Feb. 22, 1947; Rachel, Sept. 29, 1948; Andrew
Thomas, May 21, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Physician; professor and chairman, Department of Ophthalmology,
Jefferson Medical College.

MEMBER OF: Numerous scientific societies.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous scientific articles.

Upon graduation I entered medical school where adolescence was
prolonged for an additional four years. Incidentally, many of the fellows
from unheard-of undergraduate colleges were better prepared than I
which is probably more a reflection on my ability to learn than it is of
Harvard College’s ability to teach. During medical school I worked in a
physiology laboratory where we did National Defense research on blood
expanders, and this coupled with ineptness on the part of the armed
services kept me on a reserve status but excluded me from active duty in
World War II.

During my internship I met my wife and completely reversed my
opinion about “hen-medics.” To this day I stand corrected of this pre-
conceived, but misinformed, prejudice. When she completed her resi-
dency in pediatrics at Cincinnati we finally began a semi-normal existence
in lowa City where I stayed four years, first as a resident in ophthalmol-
ogy and later as a teacher and researcher in physiology.

By 1948 we were surfeited with universities, departments, deans, trus-
tees, etc., and after several false starts I bought a farm in Bucks County,
Pennsylvania, and opened an office for the private practice of ophthalmol-
ogy in the nearest city of any size; namely, Bethlehem. Things were
just rolling along nicely when the Navy finally adjusted its sights and
tagged me for the Korean “Police Action,” and I wore a uniform from
1950 to 1953. The Navy sent me to their flight surgeons school in Pen-
sacola where I almost killed myself and several instructors, following
which they decided to hide me in an aerospace medical research labora-
tory. It was all very enjoyable, but the loss of my former Pensacola

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 305

roommate aboard the Boxer in Korean waters brought to my attention
that the United States was doing more than playing a game.

After this stint, the return to private practice though lucrative was
boring beyond description. In an effort to counteract these depressive
forces I became more and more active as a consultant to the Navy and
later to NASA. Outlets for teaching were offered at the University of
Pennsylvania Medical School, and finally an opportunity came to develop
a department of my own at Jefferson Medical College in Philadelphia.
After getting this reorganized I was asked by a private foundation, Re-
search to Prevent Blindness, Inc., in New York City, to conduct a survey
concerning the status of ophthalmic research in the USA. This is cur-
rently under way, and upon its completion we hope to have a fresh
look at the support of research through non-federal money, If anyone
cares to find out more about this he can write and I will gladly send an
Annual Report.

My eldest daughter is a freshman at the University of Pennsylvania,
majoring in oriental languages as a result of exposure to a Carnegie-
supported pilot project which taught her to read, write and speak Chinese
while in secondary school. She even spent a summer at Yale (of all
places! ). My eldest son, a senior at Exeter, is studying Chinese also. We
have another daughter who is a sophomore at Concord Academy and a
son at home in grade school.

As for religion — like Pusey, I am searching. Re politics, I have never
voted the straight ticket but lean to the left of center and am of the
opinion that by and large the Republican party lives in an era which was
closed roughly fifty years ago. In other words, | like Jack, to say nothing
of Jackie. .

Bereft of a liberal education, I have been in the enviable position of
having to learn the humanities for myself. This, coupled with the fact
that science changes so rapidly that a constant re-education is required
to keep abreast, keeps me reading. Consequently, I can be pegged as a
perpetual dilettante. All in all it is fun!

FRANK VINCENT DU BOIS

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Everson, Wash.
PREPARED AT: Lewis & Clark High School, Spokane, Wash.

306 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. Decree: ti.B. (Univ. of Washington), 1940.

MARRIED: Marguerite Koepp, Feb. 3, 1940. cHuttoren: Charles, Dec. 31, 1940;
Stanley, July 18, 1942; Kim, Nov. 14, 1950.

occupaTion: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Society of Friends.

Was a conscientious objector during World War II, and would be
again. Have practised law in Everson, a small town forty miles southeast
of Vancouver, most of the ume since leaving school. This is dairy
farming country, about as green as Ireland and so untypical of the West
that my youngest son once insisted he lived in the East and said he

“would like to go out west to Texas some day.” I enjoy gardening,
hiking, Greek literature.

CHARLES DANIELS DUFFY, JR.

   

HOME ADDRESS: 625 Arden Rd., Pittsburgh 16, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Westinghouse Electric Corp., 3 Gateway Center, Pittsburgh 30, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEcREE: s.B., magna cum laude, 1939.

married: Anne B. Wheeler, June 9, 195]. cHiLpReEN: Elizabeth Lane, May 12,
1952; Marianne Wheeler, Oct. 17, 1955.

occupation: General traffic manager, Westinghouse Electric Corporation.

MemBeR OF: Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh; Duquesne Club; Uni-
versity Club of Pittsburgh; Traffic Club of Pittsburgh.

Some ten years ago Anne and I moved back to Pittsburgh which is
her home town and the city where I first started work after Harvard.
We have enjoyed seeing our two lovely young daughters grow, but I
find third and sixth grade levels of energy a bit wearing, occasionally, on
a ’3ger. Anne has been fairly active in local Wellesley and community
affairs. | have avoided involvement by exercising the alibi of rather
extensive travel for Westinghouse FAcctric most weeks of the year. |
remain highly interested in the national transportation scene, as in college

days, and continue to take an active part in local and nationwide trans-
portation affairs.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 307

LOUIS JAMES DUNHAM, JR.

 
   

HOME ADDRESS: 247 Sumner St., Stoughton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Franklin Institute of Boston, 41 Berkeley St., Boston 16, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Margaret Hamilton Kelly, April 21, 1945. cutLpren: Nelson Frederick,
April 3, 1952; Amy Eager, May 8, 1953.

occupation: Educator (technical education); director, Franklin Institute of
Boston, since 1957; registered professional engineer.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, International Benjamin Franklin Society; U.S. Army,
1940-46 (separated with rank of major).

MEMBER OF: American Society for Engineering Education; Armed Forces Com-
munications and Electronics Association; Massachusetts Schoolmasters’ Club.

Present hobbies are trailer-traveling over the United States and Canada
and sailing on lakes adjacent to campsites,

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 106 S. Oak Pk., Oak Park, Il.

308 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

FRANK PHILIP DUNN, JR.

\
'
|
{

  
  

Acca Thin DAE AAS WH eins 0 eis he BEM ap atl

   

. POET P SS SEW SC MANN an derma tg fc

HOME apprEss: 311 Rogers Drive, Falls Church, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Trade Commission, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEGREES: A.B., 1939; Lu.B. (Univ. of Maryland), 1945;
M.P.L. (National Univ.), 1948.

MARRIED: Rosemary Sullivan, Nov. 12, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Trial lawyer assigned to antitrust cases.

WILLIAM BULLARD DURANT, JR.

CR ~

  

HOME appress: 3719 N. Woodrow St., Arlington 7, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Navy Dept., Washington, D.C.

PREPARED aT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; m.p.a. (George Washington
Univ.), 1951.

markiep: Analee Patterson, Aug. 5, 1947. cHupreN: William Bullard, 3d, Sept.
28, 1948; Peter Montgomery, March 13, 1950; David Woods, June 3, 1952;
Judith Anne, Dec. 29, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Captain, U.S. Navy Supply Corpas assistant chief for planning,
Bureau of Supplies and Accounts, Navy Department.

MEMBER OF: Army-Navy Country Club, Washington, D.C.; Antarctican Society.

The review of one’s career necessary to respond to this questionnaire
leads to all sorts of unnerving soul-searching, especially when the record
is innocent of any notable achievements, temporal or otherwise, Then

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 309

there’s the thought that the first twenty-five years were probably the
easiest.

I was commissioned as an ensign in the Navy directly on graduation
in 1939, less through conscious design on my part than a series of fortui-
tous happenstances which took place during the ROTC course in which
I was enrolled. It is not at all clear that the Navy knew what it was
doing either.

In any event what started as a temporary stint to see the world
evolved into a quasi-permanent occupation what with World War Il
and all that. Accordingly, I’ve been involved in the supply-logistics end
of the Navy organization ever since. The travel contract has been com-
pletely fulfilled with tours of duty in Japan, India, China, Hawaii, and
six years afloat here and there, All im all it’s been a most interesting and
rewarding business. Was able to take the family on most of the overseas
tours and their enthusiasm for sightseeing now far overshadows mine.

The administration’s efforts to reshape military thinking as well as
the Defense establishment have the profession in a state of upheaval.
Whereas there’s no quarrel with the objectives of cost and effectiveness
trade-offs, etc., it’s by no means certain that the bureaucracy can cope
with the rate of change desired. Hence much strain and pain, comph-
cated by a myriad of second-guessers in the Defense and Congressional
echelons.

I’ve been blessed with a fine family, some of whom are approaching
college age. The problem of financing their education becomes the
central one and I gather we’re not unique in this respect. For this reason
I'm not sure at this point whether continuation of a military career is in

the cards. Also after all these years we still would like to settle down in
New England.

 

HOME ADpRESS: 1500 Hudson St., Redwood City, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 925 E. Meadow Drive, Palo Alto, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Lewis & Clark High School, Spokane, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936, 1937-1939. prcREKS: s.B., 1939; mio. (Stanford
Univ.) , 1945.

MARRIED: Mary Celeste Denman, 1941 (divorced 1955); Sarah Elizabeth Cornew,
1956. CHILDREN: Mary Caroline, Jan. 24, 1944: Emmett Denman, Jan. 4&
1947; Alice Celeste, Feb. 13, 1951; Sarah Anna, June 1, 1960.

‘7 TTF Fg PvP DPF Oe a garni RRSP MTORR
- —

310 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

occupation: President, Durrum Instrument Corporation, a corporation engaged
in the manufacturing and marketing of scientific instruments.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; New York
Academy of Sciences (fellow); American Chemical Society; American
Association of Biological Chemists; Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author technical manual on electrophoresis and a number of
patents on technical instruments; publications relating to protein chemistry,
atherosclerosis, electrophoresis, ete.

Following graduation in 1939, I took a job in the patent department of
Shell Development Company in San Francisco where I worked for three
years. During this period it became evident that I was not cut out for
a legal career and was influenced by some medical friends to apply at
Stanford Medical School, which I did. I finished Stanford Medica]
School in 1945 and was assigned to an Army Medical Research Labora-
tory at Fort Knox, Kentucky, where I stayed for approximately five
years being engaged almost entirely in protein and amino acid research,
Subsequently, I was transferred to the Army Medical Service Graduate
School at Walter Reed in Washington, D.C., where I first held the
position of chief of the Biochemical Section of the Cardiorespiratory
Diseases Section under Dr. D. L. Gregg and during my last three years
in the Medical Corps that of chief of the Department of Pharmacology
at the same institution. In 1954 I resigned my Medical Corps commission
to join the research department of the Specialized Instruments Corpora-
tion, a scientific instruments manufacturing organization which shortly
thereafter was acquired by Beckman Instruments. I remained as associate
research director until about fifteen months ago when I resigned to form
my own scientific instrument business called Durrum Instrument Cor-
poration. We are located in Palo Alto, California. I am the president of
this organization which is manufacturing and marketing research equip-
ment for use in connection with chromatography and electrophoresis
and also electro-optical instrumentation.

In 1941 I was married to Mary Celeste Denman who was a graduate of
Sullins and of the University of Missouri. By this marriage I have three
children, but it was terminated in 1955 by divorce. In 1956 I married
Sarah Elizabeth Cornew, a Mills graduate, and in 1960 my youngest
daughter was born.

CHARLES DICKEY DYER, ID

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT R11

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: “Tall Timbers,” 107 Carter Rd., R-D. 3-138, Princeton,
N.J. 08540.

PREPARED At: Hawken School, Lyndhurst, Ohio; University School, Shaker Heights,

io.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Ruth Helen Bailing, June 2, 1952. cui.pren: Charles Dickey, 4th
(Brown 765), Dec. 9, 1942; David Allan (Brown 65), Dec. 9, 1943 (stepson) ;
Morgan Coit Day (Brown °66), April 9, 1944; Catherine Caroline, April 18,
1953; Bradford Bailing, Jan. 16, 1956.

occuPATION: Proprietor, Dickey, Dyer, management consultants; senior partici-
pant, Dyer, Schoeller & Wirth, managers, consultants and _ professional
engineers, formed to furnish technical service to U.S. Department of Com-
merce.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1962, finance director, 1962, Lawrence Township
(N.J.) Republican Club; member, Mercer County (N.J.) Republican Com-
mittee, 1961-62; vice-president for programs, Cleveland Chapter, Society for
Advancement of Management, 1955-56; class agent, University School Class
of °35, 1955-56; class agent, Hawken School Class of 733-10, 1955-58;
treasurer, Hawken School Alumni Association, 1955-57; ruling elder, United
Presbyterian Church in the U.S.A., since 1959; member, Church Order Com-
mittee, New Brunswick (N.J.) Presbytery, 1962-65; chairman, Music Com-
mittee, 1961, Finance Committee, 1960, Public Relations Committee, 1959,
The Session; president, 1960, secretary, 1959, board of trustees, Presbyterian
Church, Lawrenceville (N.J.); member, House Committee, Hopewell (N_J.)
Valley Golf Club, 1960-61.

MEMBER OF: Society for Advancement of Management; American Institute of
Industrial Engineers; National Association of Accountants; Industrial Man-
agement Society; Harvard Engineering Society; Union Club of Cleveland;
Harvard Clubs of New York and Boston; Hopewell (N.J.) Valley Golf Club;
Harvard Varsity Club; Speakers’ Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical articles in professional and trade journals, viz: Instru-
ments and Control Systems, September, 1959; Factory Management and
Maintenance, October, 1955; Electrical Engineering, November, 1954; Tool
Engineer, April, 1954; Machine Design, December, 1953; Journal of Industrial
Engineering, February, 1953; Gray Iron Industry News, November, 1950 and
December, 1949; Motor Truck and Coach, February, 1949.

On the Monday morning after Commencement, 1939, I went to work
for Scott Paper Company, Chester, Pennsylvania, eventually becoming
district manager in St. Louis, Missouri. Two years later in April, I
joined my father’s firm, Dyer Engineers, Inc., industrial management con-
sultants, of Cleveland, Ohio, with which I spent ten happy years: the first
half on resident engineering assignments and the second half on new
business development, including serving as corporate secretary. In Feb-
ruary, 1951, I struck out on my own becoming business manager of the
Work-Factor Company, management consultants, industrial engineers
and business operators. In November, 1955, I became a principal of
Welling & Woodard, industrial consultants, of New York and Phila-
delphia, In July, 1957, I became resident manager at New York for
George Fry & Associates, management consultants, of Chicago. In Jan-
uary of the following year, I struck out again on my own, establishing
my present independent general management counselling practice, serv-
ing manufacturers, wholesalers, service businesses and government facili-
ties. I have just passed the one hundred mark in clients I have been
privileged to serve.

Meantime, I have enjoyed helping out with a number of Harvard proj-
ects, such as serving on our Permanent Class Committee since 1954,
chairing the Regional Representatives Organization for our 20th Re-

312 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

union, chairing the Midwest Regional Committees for our 15th and roth
Reunions, chairing our 8th Interim Reunion Committee, chairing the
Harvard Foundation for Advanced Study and Research’s organization
drive in northern Ohio for two years (1950-52), assisting our Class
Agents in northern Ohio for four years (1949-54), and serving as Enter-
tainment Chairman of the Harvard Club of Cleveland for two years
(1948-50), thereby working with such affairs as the annual Crimson Ball
and the annual H-Y-P Picnic. My constant traveling since I moved to
Princeton, New Jersey, in August, 1956, plus the requirements of church

and party, have substantially reduced my availability to participate in

Harvard affairs. On the other hand, my constant traveling has had its

compensations, as I have thus had the opportunity to see many of you

over the past fifteen years. In sum, I have enjoyed things Harvard more

than work, church or party.

Meantime, I have also Jearned something from my professional prac-
tice. It has to do with “change.” I used to be concerned about change
because of its inevitability and because of the need to prepare my clients
for it. Of course, I still am, but I look upon it differently. Now, I focus
on change for the sake of change, for I have learned that people them-
selves do not change. They are what they are, a product of inheritance,
environment, etc, It isn’t that people won’t change as a matter of will;
it’s that they can’t as a matter of will. Yet people are astonishingly capa-
ble of adapting to external change, and they get better at it, the more they
have to do it. Thus, the organization, whether business or government or
otherwise, that they would prepare for external change must of itself
induce internal change, must induce this change for the sake of change in
order to sharpen the capability of its people to adapt to external change
when it strikes. This means that the enlightened management of a larger
enterprise must forever be moving its people about into unfamiliar en-
vironments, The people hate it. This means that the enlightened manage-
ment of a small enterprise must forever be releasing people and hiring
new people. The people hate this even more. This means that the fellow
who takes a job with a larger organization will probably always have
some kind of a job with that organization —and a lot of aggravation.
This means that the fellow who takes a job with a smaller organization
had better know how he is going quickly to get into a position where he
is one of the ones who induces change rather than being one of the ones
who gets changed. Else he is going to be out of work with distressing
regularity — and highly aggravated. Now that Iam convinced of change

for the sake of change, my clients are making much faster progress.

Finally, except for being the husband of Ruth B. Dyer and the son of
C. D. Dyer, Jr., there is nothing I would rather be in this life than a
Harvard man. And maybe my little Bradford will be able someday to
share this experience with me. He looks like a winner!

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 313

GEORGE HOWARD EARLE, IV

 

HOME ADDRESS: 510 College Ave., Haverford, Pa.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937.

MARRIED: Mary S. Pearson, 1942. cuipren: Mary P., 1944; George Howard, 5th,
1946; Huberta P., 1957.

occupaTIoN: Advertising.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Provident Tradesmen’s B & T Company, Broad St.
Trust Company, Oxy-Catalyst Manufacturing Company.

MEMBER OF: Pine Valley Golf Club; Corinthian Yacht Club ; Racquet Club of
Philadelphia; IV St. Club; Kennel Club.

Two years of newspaper business, 1937-39; then one year as secretary
to the American Minister to Bulgaria; seven years, U.S.N., exec. of
Bombing Squadron 131; seventeen years of banking — bored stiff; now
in advertising; sold my farm and am now living in suburbia — easy.
Thirty-nine houses on the old homestead. Never see any old Harvard
graduates here — are there any?

JAMES CLIFFORD EATON

 

HOME ApprEss: R.D. 1, Walworth, N.Y,
orrice of Doness Eastman Kodak Co., Kodak Park Works, Bldg. 65, Rochester 4,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H,

314 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1937-1939. pEGREE: a.B., 1939.

marriepD: Margaret T. Nutter, Simmons '45, Dec. 20, 1947. cHiLpREN: Caroly
Clifford, May 19, 1949; James Nutter, Aug. 23, 1951; Kenneth Millar, Jul
30, 1953; Ruth Ann, Sept. 26, 1954.

occupation: Technical associate, color print and processing, Eastman Koda.
Company.

oFFIcEs HELD: Lay Leader, 1954—58, trustee, since 1956, Macedon Center Metho
dist Church; delegate, Palmyra-Macedon Council of Churches, since 1956
member, 1957-62, president, 1958-59, Palmyra-Macedon Central School Dis
trict; master, 1958-60, executive committee, since 1960, Macedon Grange No
326; president. Palmyra-Macedon Youth Council, 1960-61; Institutional Repre-
sentative, Cub Scout Pack 166, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Society for Quality Control;
Society of Motion Pictures and Television Engineers; Society of Photographic
Scientists and Engineers; Army and Navy Club; Macedon Grange; Eastman
House Associates; Harvard Club of Rochester.

After a brief excursion to the New York World’s Fair of 1939, I
reported to the Cine Processing Division at Kodak Park, Rochester, to
learn the arcane art of color photographic processing. Uncle Sam caught
me in mid-stream for a “year” of training which stretched, but not
quickly, into five. After four years in training in the United States as an
enlisted instructor at Fort Belvoir, Virginia, Engineer OCS, Engineer Bn
S-2, Aide-de-Camp, and Assistant Division G-z in Oklahoma, Texas,
and Louisiana, and finally in G-2 at the Pentagon, I wound up back in
China for a year. Seven months of this was spent with the Army Ob-
server Group in Yenan, Chinese Communist Headquarters, where we
rubbed elbows with Mao, Chou, Chu, and a host of lesser lights. Nothing
rubbed off, however.
On return from service I gravitated for a while between Rochester
and Chicago, still working for Kodak in the field of color processing.
During this period I married Peg Nutter and thought to settle in Evans-
ton, Illinois, for a life of connubial bliss, Uncle George and Uncle Sam
had other ideas. In 1950 I was transferred back to Rochester to head a
development group in the color processing field. Having bought a farm
east of Rochester and barely settled into the job, I found Uncle Sam
requiring my services again in the Orient. Of the two years in the
Service, fifteen months were spent in Japan and Korea and the remainder
at the Pentagon in Army G-2. This time, to my obvious relief, I had no
direct contacts with the Chinese Communists. My family managed to
get to Japan for ten months, while I was in Korea mostly, We had a
home in a suburb of Tokyo with the requisite view of Mount Fiji from
the front yard on clear days.

On return to Kodak I was made quality control supervisor for non-
US. Processing. In 1956 I spent three months in Europe visiting the
Kodak processing operations there and working at the Stuttgart factory.
On return, | was designated a technical associate and have been in this
field since then.

The post-Korea period was the first opportunity to settle roots in one
place. This has led to an extended period of community service work
in church, Grange, school, and related activities, the most demanding
being a five-year stint on the School Board during two building pro-
grams, for one of which I served a term as president, As these slacked
Off a bit, meaning I retired from the School Board, 1 went back to school

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 315

in search of an advanced degree in applied mathematics. I’m now in the
second year with three more to go at the present pace. This should coin-
cide with my eldest’s high school diploma.

We have ducks, geese, cats, kids, and about twenty hives of bees on
the farm. This is about all I can handle in addition to earning a living.
The farm has been a long-term retirement program. The way houses
are going up along our quondam country road, I now expect at retire-
ment to sell to a builder at a fat profit and head off to the boondocks
somewhere else.

LAWRENCE FORR

EST EBB

'

om

    

HOME ADDRESS: 140 Lucero Way, Menlo Park, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stanford Law School, Stanford, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935~1939. DECREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1940;
LL.B., magna cum laude, 1943(46).

MARRIED: Carmel Prashker, April 26, 1946. cHitpREN: Nancy Elizabeth, July 16,
1950; David Henry, Jan. 18, 1955; Peter Lewis, Jan. 31, 1960.

OccUPATION: Professor of law, Stanford Law School; active practice of law
from time to time; admitted to practice by the bars of California, New York
and District of Columbia.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, American Journal of Comparative
Law, 1955-62; member, then president, board of directors, Ladera Recreation
District, 1958-x 62; legal member, then president, board of directors, Ladera
Community Association, 1956-58; chairman, Advisory Group on India Invest-
ment Project, 1962-63, member, executive council, since 1962, American So-
ciety of International Law; director, Internal Legal Studies Program, Stan-
ford Law School, 1955-62.

MEMBER OF: Section on International & Comparative Law, American Bar Associa-
tion.

PUBLICATIONS: Taxation of Foreign Income, with Bittker, 1960; Regulation and
Protection of International Business, 1963; editor, Public Law Problems in
India, 1957; “Interstate Barriers in India & American Constitutional Ex-
perience,” 11 Stanford Law Review 37, 1958: “Conference of the Indian
Law Institute,” 7 American Journal of Comparative Law 219, 1958.

An awesomely long time has passed since college graduation and chat
summer of °39, spent cycling and youth hosteling in France and Switzer-
land with Irv London, Jim Tobin, Dick Sullivan and Dick Finn, Retro-
spection for more than a twelve-month period is a somewhat dithcult
process, However, the summer abroad in °39 is a useful theme, since

1 OPT RRR ter eet ue Me

316 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

international things and events have been a major concern in the develop-
ment of my career. Service in the Navy during World War II, with the
Fleet Intelligence Officer in the Southwest Pacific, involved a close
acquaintance with. Australia, New Guinea and the Philippines. Post-war
activities (after finishing off my interrupted law school education and
clerking for Judge Augustus Hand and Chief Justice Vinson) allowed me
to continue my interest in the international field: I spent six years with
the General Counsel’s Office in the succession of foreign aid agencies
— ECA, MSA and FOA —in Washington.

A year of travel and research in India served as a bridge between the
role of government lawyer and that of law teacher. Since 1955, I have
taught at Stanford Law School, covering subjects that range from trade
regulation to commercial law, but specializing in a series of new courses
that I have developed in the field of international transactions. My two
casebooks in that area serve as the basis for those courses. Occasional,
part-time private practice and the full-time devotion of last academic
year (while on a leave of absence from the University) to practice with
an internationally-minded New York law firm have kept me from getting
too ivory-towerish about these subjects. I have been particularly in-
terested in the international growth of American industry, the develop-
ment of the European Common Market, and the close relationship of
the United States to the Common Market, the “Outer Seven,” and to
the economically underdeveloped countries of the world. In some part,
this reflects a conviction that the resolution of the difficult international
political problems will be eased by strengthening international economic
ties. Moreover, the techniques of accommodation of conflicting national

interests in the latter field may be adaptable to the former.

Kim, whom I met and married while clerking in New York just after

finishing law school, has been my constant companion through these
twists and turns of career and geographical location. Kim, who is also
a lawyer, had been clerking for Judge Jerome Frank when we first met,
and worked with the legal offices of the Atomic Energy Commission and
the National Science Foundation during our Washington years. Nancy,
our first child, was born in Washington; her birth and upbringing turned
Kim into a part-time lawyer with the NSF. Since the arrival of David
and Peter, in our California period, Kim’s life has been heavily filled with
the usual tasks of a suburban mother, but she has never quite abandoned
her legal career. As the smallest member of the family prepares to em-
bark upon his schooling, Kim is giving some thought to what kind of
career, and how extensive a one, she would like to resume.

Hobbies have consisted mainly of participating in community affairs —
helping organize a Recreation District (a tax-levying body), serving as
volunteer counsel to represent it in litigation in which it found itself in-
volved, and deriving some satisfaction out of seeing a swimming pool
and some tennis courts finally constructed and much used. Sharing in
the bringing up and education of our own kids may not quite qualify
asa hobby, but it has been a very fascinating and largely gratifying ex-
perience.

et SENNA nee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 317

ROBERT MONTGOMERY ECKLES

r ao stra

  
  

  

HOME ADDRESS: 267 W. 45th St., New York 36, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937. DEGREE: s.B. (Juilliard School of Music).
OCCUPATION: Actor.

Have all my teeth and most of my hair. Moderately successful in a
hazardous occupation. Ardent Republican but can be remonstrated with.
Last New York play, “Beckett,” as King Louis VII, wich Laurence
Olivier and Anthony Quinn.

HAROLD NELSON EDINBERG

  

HOME appress: 64 Indian Ridge Rd., Newton Centre, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Monarch Rubber Co., and Rogers Corp., 210 Lincoln St., Boston,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; a.m.tT., 1940. .

marrtep: Ruth A. Cohen, Jan. 1, 1944. CHILDREN: Mark Abbot, Aug. 27, 1947;
Elizabeth Ann, Aug. 22, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Sales representative, Monarch Rubber Company, Baltimore, manu-
facturers and distributors of composition solings, and Rogers Corporation,
Rogers, Conn., manufacturers of quality inner solings and midsolings for the
shoe industry. .

OFFICES HELD: Member board of trustees, Temple Shalom of Newton, 1962-693

+ 117 7-7 pene emmaanet Diameeamnaate eanareinghier ¥-TOEAE We! F* peng ENR RAE Heer pia coke

318 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

vice-president, Brotherhood of Temple Shalom of Newton, 1963-64; executive
board, Meadowbrook Junior High School P.T.A., Newton, 1960; chairman,
Troop 50. 1955, cubmaster, Pack 50, 1957, Boy Scouts of America.

MEMBER OF: Shawmut Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; 210 Associates, Inc.

My decision to seek a teaching career in 1939 had a direct effect on
my life for the next seven years. I received a Master’s in teaching at the
School of Education in 1940 and finally found a position in the School
Department of Worcester, Massachusetts. A new program of visual
education was underway here and I was assigned to organize and pro-
mote this endeavor. However, a year later the budget was cut and my
civilian career in education ended and my military career began. I
started in 1942 by enlisting as a private and was sent directly to Cape Cod
to help guard the Fast Coast from invasion. After a year of boredom,
broken only each thirty days by a twenty-four-hour pass to the big city,
I found my way to OCS and emerged as a second lieutenant, Anti-air-
craft. Back to Cape Cod I went. This time it was Camp Edwards where
I was soon assigned to organize a school for illiterate soldiers. This
proved to be a most interesting assignment and lasted about a year.
Finally the program was discontinued and somewhat later on I was sent
to Headquarters Alaskan Command. The War had been over in this
area for some time, and my job was to establish an on-duty and off-duty
educational program for the entire Command. Here I remained until
separated, having attained the rank of captain.

My long service in the Boston-Cape Cod area gave me the opportunity
to meet my wife, Ruth. We were married January 1, 1944, and will have
celebrated our twentieth anniversary by the time this Report is published.

When I returned from the Army I had pretty much decided not to
attempt the field of education. I had become acquainted with many men
who were educators, and I found that the life they led as civilians did not
look as appealing to me in 1946 as it did in 1939. Therefore, I found my
way into the business world starting at the bottom in a leather tannery.
After a few years of trial and error I became a sales representative and

have been with my present connections for the past thirteen years sell-

ing materials to New England shoe manufacturers.

While my children were going through elementary and secondary
school, my outside interests were centered in PTA, Cub Scouts, Boy
Scouts, and Little League. In recent years my outside activity has been
directed towards Temple and Brotherhood work. Also, due to Ruth’s
interests and talents, we have participated in local dramatic group en-
deavors. She is the performer while I stick to putting up scenery or sell-
ing tickets. And I do make ume for golf in the summer and bowling
and volleyball in the winter in an attempt to keep in some kind of physi-

cal shape.

As I reread this account of the past twenty-five years, I do wonder
what would have happened to my life had I gone in a different direction
in 1939 or 1946. 1 can truthfully say that no matter what might have
been, I] am sure my present feeling of satisfaction and pleasure would
not be surpassed. My son, Mark, and daughter, Liz, are now sixteen and
fourteen, respectively, and are constant sources of joy to both of us.
We live in the suburb of Newton, Massachusetts, and have enjoyed its
superior school system and civic government. TF only hope that my re-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 319

port for the Fiftieth will show the same spirit of good feeling and general
satisfaction as this the Twenty-fifth.

RUSSELL BRADFORD EDMOND

   

LN: stein

 

HOME AbpRESS: Green Acres Drive, Madison, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stanley-Judd, Judd Square, Wallingford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Norwich Free Academy, Norwich, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREES: S.B., 1939; s.m., 1940.

MARRIED: Ernestine Hennessy, July 13, 1943. cHitprReN: Russell Bradford, Jr.,
April 14, 1948; Rose Brooke, March 18, 1952.

occupation: Hardware— chief products engineer; registered professonial en-
gineer in Connecticut, Rhode Island, Massachusetts, New York and Dela-
ware; certified by National Council of State Board of Engineering Examiners.

MEMBER OF: Society of Harvard Engineers and Scientists; U.S. Power Squadrons.

After getting my S.M. and Artillery commission in 1940, I spent a year
in industry before enlisting in the Air Corps Engineering program in
July of 1941. Pearl Harbor so scrambled things that I was finally com-
missioned in the Air Corps after serving with a regular outfit as a cadet.
Assigned to heavy bombardment, spent the entire war with B-24q’s from
service testing them in California, to patching them up in the Aleutians,
to watching them fill the skies from England. Between tours in the
Aleutians and Britain, married “Pat.” Uncle Sam gave us a six months’
honeymoon with assignments at seven stations in six months throughout
the West. Also managed to come back to Cambridge at this time to visit
with Pat’s brother, Dean Hennessy, ’45.

Back to civilian status in 1945. Have stayed in engineering design and
development working with several companies of national prominence in
the fields of machinery, plastics, hardware, fasteners and engines.

The boys occupy our main interest and enjoyment and renew our
old interests as they develop theirs in music, the woods, scouting and boat-
ing. Which brings me to my vice, the Alden schooner w hich we look
forward to commissioning soon — we hope.

We continue to anticipate the day when Harvard will give us a Re-
publican president with fiscal responsibility — or at least a president with
fiscal responsibility.

320 HARVARD CLASS OF 1 939

     

JOHN FREDERICK EGE, JR

ERAN GS erage
a

  

HOME ADDRESS: 4637 Downers Drive, Downers Grove, III.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Argonne National Laboratory, 9700 S. Cass Ave., Argonne, III.

PREPARED AT: Revere High School, Revere, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1936-1939. DEGREES: $.B., 1939; s.M., 1946.

MARRIED: Dorothy Constance Lindbergh, Oct. 5, 1941. CHILDREN: Stephen Michael,
Aug. 21, 1943; Frederick Arthur, April 10, 1946.

occupation: Director, Industrial Hygiene and Safety Division, Argonne National
Laboratory.

MEMBER OF: Delta Omega (Beta Chapter, 1946, Harvard); American Chemical
Society; Scientific Research Society of America; The Society of Harvard En-
gineers and Scientists; Harvard Public Health Alumni Association; Associa-
tion of Harvard Chemists; American Association for Advancement of Science;
American Industrial Hygiene Association; Health Physics Society; American
Management Association; Atomic Forum.

PUBLICATIONS: Various publications in the technical literature.

For the last fifteen years I have been working in a research laboratory
(atomic energy) which is operated by the University of Chicago for the
AEC

HOBBIES: Moonlighting as a consultant and renewing my flying
proficiency.

WAR RECORD: Lieutenant, USNR.

GOVERNMENT SERVICE: As a service to the Government, I have
been voting on the national level as a Republican.

POLITICS: We should return to the dollar profit mode of planning
which yields a far superior result to the plans of bureaucrats who de-
lude themselves that they can conceive of even a small fraction of the
simultaneous events happening across the country. Local political action
is an example of political planning. As a close observer of these efforts,
I have been amazed that anything at all gets done.

ALUMNI COMMUNICATIONS; To improve alumni communica-
tions, I suggest that some officer save a copy of each piece of mail and
review this pile after twenty-five years to find the central theme and
message, Perhaps he would find an improved answer to the question,
“What communication should exist?” I would recommend news of cur-
rent events, perhaps a copy of a current set of hour exam questions,

perhaps a transcript of an inceresting lecture, or a photograph along
with the well-known rerurn address envelope.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 321

HILMAR BRUCE EHRMANN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 47 South St., Brockton, Mass. 02401.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Temple Israel, 184 W. Elm St., Brockton, Mass. 02401.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; B.H.L. (Hebrew Union Coll.),
1944; M.H.L. (ibid.)}, 1948,

MARRIED: Nancy Lehman, Aug. 25, 1946. CHILDREN: Ann, July 29, 1948; David
Micah, April 13, 1951; Johanna, Feb. 3, 1955; Jonathan Simon, April 27, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Rabbi, Temple Israel, Brockton; part-time Jewish chaplain, Veterans
Administration Hospital, Brockton, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Currently, president, Massachusetts Board of Rabbis (previously
served in other capacities); trustee, Brockton Public Library, since 1950;
director, Alumni Association of Hebrew Union College — Jewish Institute
of Religion;' past president, Brockton Rotary Club, Eastern New England
Conference of Liberal Rabbis; member of board, Red Cross, Salvation
Army, etc.

MEMBER OF: Old Colony Harvard Club; Rotary; American Jewish Committee;
Central Conference of American Rabbis, etc.

My preparation for the rabbinate began with courses at the Harvard
Summer School in 1939 and at the Harvard Divinity School during 1939-
40. I then began the six-year course offered by the Hebrew Union Col-.
lege in Cincinnati and was ordained in 1948 by Rabbi-Archaeologist
Nelson Glueck, after having been on a leave of absence during the years
1945 through 1947, when I served as acting rabbi in Alexandria, Louisiana.
After ordination, being an inveterate New Englander, I sought a pulpit
in the Boston area. The congregation in Brockton happily supplied the
answer to our quest, and here we have remained. In the fall of 1963 we
purchased our home here, a lovely old Georgian colonial, and bade the
pseudo- Victorian parsonage in which we had lived for fifteen years a
not too sad farewell.

Our congregation has doubled in membership over the years, and its
religious school has approximately tripled in size. In 1956 our Temple
dedicated a handsome new educational and administrative wing which is
a continuing source of satisfaction. Routine tasks and problems big and
small, in connection with Judaism in general and the congregation in
particular, take up most of my time and much of Nancy’s as well. The
rabbinate, more than most professions, distinctly involves the wives! A
trip to Israel in 1961 was certainly one of life’s high points for us. We
found Israel to be all that the fund-raisers and the travel folders had

22 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

promised and more, and we hope to spend much more time there if we
can. A whirlwind European tour while en route to Isracl was an extra
bonus which gave us a brief reunion with an English aunt whom I hadn’t
seen in over thirty years, Generally, we have spent our summers at Birch
Island, Maine, a precious little bit of rock and field and forest not too
far offshore, where kerosene and bortled gas still provide most of the
illumination (electricity, alas, does have a foothold in one non-conform-
ing cottage), where telephones have not penetrated, and where the un-
complicated serenity of an earlier era still blessedly prevails. Our chil-
dren, gratifvingly, cherish the simple island life as much as we do and
would eagerly camp out there even in February, J think, if only we would
permit it!

The new expressways have brought Boston closer than ever to Brock-
ton, and we find ourselves increasingly i in and out of the metropolis. But
Brockton manages to maintain a modicum of separateness and individu-
ality, and we find this small-city atmosphere a good one in which to live
and raise our chlidren.

In a “postwar world” that scarcely shows evidence of the high hopes
we had back in 1945, I still have faith in the innate goodness of man and
in his power to set society aright. Liberalism in politics and in religion is
second nature tome. ADA, the ACLU, and the NAACP, among others,
reflect the kinds of views that I believe must prevail if humanity is to
endure. The ministry, I find, is a most satisfying way in which to work,
together with all kinds of people, on behalf of the causes that one holds

dear.

SAMUEL HERST EICHERLY +

 

Last wartine apprise: 106 Wagner Hotel, 814 S. Hope St, Loa Angeles 17,
Calif, :

ww

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 323

ALFRED EISNER

 

BoRN: Dec. 8, 1916, Newark, N.J. parents: Isadore Eisner, Lena Freedman.
PREPARED AT: South Side High School, Newark, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1939, DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

piep: Jan. 4, 1941, New York, N.Y.

Alfred Eisner attended the University of Wisconsin for two years be-
fore entering Harvard. After college he entered the motion picture field
and was associated with Metro-Goldwyn-Mayer Picture Corporation in

Hollywood.

SHELDON VICTOR EKMAN

ee OR eel STS wy

 

SRNR ne rome mani a samen

  

HOME ApprEss: 3 Pumpkin Hill, Westport, Conn,

OFFICE ADDRESS: S.D. Leidesdorf & Co, 125 Park Ave. New York 1) N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Manchester High School, Central, Manchester, NH.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecRmES: a... cum laude, L389; Lie, OA.

MARRIED: Judith S, Saturen, Aug. P1043. crimoren: Richard Howard, Qet 1,
1945; Joanna Katherine, Oct, 2, 19-49,

HARVARD SON: Richard Howard Ekman, ‘66,

OCCUPATION: Tax consultant and tax department manager.

OFFices HELD: Member, Advisory and Planning Committees, New York Lniveruty
Institute on Federal Taxation, since 102; member, Committee oan Court
Procedure, Section of Taxation, American Bar Association: member, Cen
mittve on Taxation, Federal Bar Association; lecturer, ‘Vax bisitutes, New

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

324
York University, since 1950, Rutgers University Law School, 1959 Ohi
Law School, 1961, Dickinson Law School, 1953, 1961, Fairleigh pe
University, 1961, Texas Technological College, 1963.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; H
New York and New Canaan. arvard Clubs of

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on various tax subjects in Ohio State Law Journal
York Law Journal, Journal of Taxation, The Practical Lawyer Proce: New
of New York University Institute on Federal Taxation. ; cédings

: State
ickinson

After Commencement I went on to the Harvard Law School and
received the LL.B. degree in Navy uniform in June, 1942. I entereg th
Navy as an ensign, spent three and a half years in the service, two of
them in Trinidad, B.W.I., and was released as a lieutenant in Decem-
ber, 1945. At that time I became a Special Attorney in the Office of
Chief Counsel of the Internal Revenue Service at New York City, and
remained in that position until December, 1950; my work consisted of
trial of tax cases for the Government in the Tax Court. I then went on
to my present position.

Professionally, my work is exclusively in taxes and encompasses the
entire ficld of federal and state taxation. I have done a considerable
amount of writing and lecturing in the field, and find it a fascinating
and ever-changing specialty.

After several years of residence in New York City, we moved to
Westport in 1956 and have enjoyed exurbia ever since. While the life
of a commuter has its difficulties, the compensations of space and the
New England countryside more than make up for them, at least in my
view. I guess I remain a small town boy at heart. Two years ago I ran

for Representative Town Meeting and was the first runner-up, but I
have no further political ambitions.

In September my son was admitted to Harvard College with sopho-
more standing, and I derive a great deal of pleasure from his reports on
Harvard today. It appears that twenty-five years have wrought changes,
but in general, Harvard is basically the same as it was in our day.

like to think that the essentials of the College will remain much as we
knew them, for in my opinion the brand of education we received was
unexcelled.

My work leaves all too little time for making music, but I do manage
to listen as much as I can; I fear that the normal shift from participant
to spectator has taken place.

All in all, I have no quarrel with the past twenty-
been good ones in nearly every respect, Although I must confes
don't feel as old as I remember the Class of 1914 looked in 1939!

five years; they have
ve y © that I

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT . 325

CHARLES BRADFORD ELLIS

    

HOME ADDRESS: 8647 Cashio St., Los Angeles 35, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Los Angeles Board of Education, 1425 S. San Pedro St., Los

Angeles 54, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecrEEs: s.B., 1939; m.B.a. (Univ. of Pennsyl-
vania), 1944.
MARRIED: Divorced.

OCCUPATION: Administrative analyst, Los Angeles City Board of Education.

At age fifteen, at the beginning of the Great Depression, I became a
man overnight because I had to become completely self-supporting. By
working at various jobs (mostly menial ones) I managed to finish high
school and later even got a degree from Harvard. Looking back, 1 won-
der how I did it. After a hitch with the U.S. Marine Corps (where I ©
discovered that I wasn’t born to be a soldier) I went to graduate school
at the Wharton School of the University of Pennsylvania. There 1
earned an M.B.A. in industrial organization and management. Since that
time I have had a varied career in business, in college teaching, and in
governmental service. Here I made another discovery —I wasn’t born
to be rich either.

The limited family life I had as a youngster (since my mother died
when I was six years old) and the unfortunate marriage I experienced
have made me a confirmed bachelor, However, there are other reasons
as well. Monogamy does not suit my temperament, and serial mono-
gamy has disastrous legal and financial entanglements for men. Be-
sides...

During the summer of 1959 I toured Europe from London to Athens,
Asa result I made a very important discovery. One does not have to be
rich to travel. For three months in 1963 I explored Greece from Rhodes
to Corfu and from Sparta to Salonica. Since I speak Greek fluently and
since I have many relatives there, I thoroughly enjoyed my pilgrimage to
the land of my forefathers — the land where western civilization began.
I have now decided to sce as much of this planet as | can in my remain-
ing years. Accordingly, I plan to tour the Orient in 1964. This trip
will begin a period of annual overseas trips.

Religion I outgrew while I was still in my teens. Moreover, at about
the same time I resolved to get the most possible pleasure with the least

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

326 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

possible effort. Actually this is the predominant prevailing Philos
in our society. Many more subscribe to it and live by it than A Phy
admit it out loud even to themselves, I have no minor vices such
drinking or gambling. Cigarettes | gave up eleven Yeats ago. Howey :
major vices such as beautiful young women are a different story, Oth,
than the hobbies mentioned above I enjoy dancing, photography, mu ct
and theatre, and nature (mountains, lakes, the ocean, and desert), lng
dentally, California is a good place for nature lovers, ol
I still favor democracy over plutocracy and over oligarchy, Accord
ingly, I am pleased that our society has been broadening the areas of
freedom for individuals and extending such freedom to lar Ser segments
of our people. If the United States supported such freedoms Overseas
more instead of supporting reactionary dictatorships as it Benerally dogs
the general welfare of mankind would improve. Moreover, the chances
of our being incinerated in a thermonuclear war would decline.
From the foregoing it should be obvious that I am reasonably happy
with life. As a matter of fact I make it a point to enjoy as much of

every day as possible.

ROYS ARTHUR ELLIS, JR.

    

HOME ApprEss: 2648 Palos Verdes Drive W., Palos Verdes Estates, Calif. 90275. .
OFFICE AppRESS: American Airlines, Inc., Los Angeles International Airport, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Central High School, Detroit, Mich.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938,
makniep: Marjorie Millicent: Brown, June 24, 1939, cimoren: Susan Ashley,
March 5, 1941 Gm. Derek Owen Van Euren, June 24. 1960): Roys Arthur, 3d.
March 29, 1943; Jeffrey Belknap, Feb. 12, 1945: Jamea Brown, April 4. 1947.
CHANDCHILDREN: Derek Owen Van Etten, Jr., July 1, 1961; Elizabeth Ashley
Van Fiten. Sept. 23, 1962.
HARVARD SON; Roys Arthur Ellis, 34, 63.
occepaTion: Airline pilot,
memare oF: Allied Pilots Association; Suaring Socirty of America; Southern
California Soaring Association; King Harbor Yacht Club,

In the fall of 1936 1 took a vear's leave of absence from Harvard to
Jearn ta fly at Dallas Aviation School, Upon my return to Harvar
conninucd my flying by working part time for Wiggins Airways
instructor and charter pilot. In the fall of ig3H Powent to wor

as an
ull

 

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 327

time with Wiggins, terminating my formal education. In February,
1939, 1 was hired as a co-pilot by American Airlines for whom I have
flown ever since. With American Airlines I started flying DC-2s and
DC-3s as co-pilot based in Boston. Early In 1941 I was promoted to
captain. During the War I flew as an American Airlines contract pilot
for the Air Transport Command. I flew C-54s making more than one
hundred crossings of the Atlantic. Following the War I returrned to
domestic flying based in Boston.

Margy and I were married in June of 1939. We lived in Lynnfield,
Massachusetts, until 1949 when we moved to Reading, Massachusetts.
Our four children were all born while we lived in Lynnfield. During
the war years I was fortunate to be home between my overseas trips
that rarely lasted more than a week. During the Korean fracas I was
loaned to Pan American to fly between San Francisco and Tokyo but
was able to commute from Boston, being home about two weeks of
each month.

In 1954 we moved to Los Angeles because my career with American
Airlines seemed to have the brightest future there. We lived in the
Crenshaw area when we first moved to Los Angeles but moved in 1960
to Palos Verdes Estates overlooking the Pacific Ocean. For the last three
years I have been flying jets mostly on non-stop runs to the east coast.
To date I have flown over 20,000 hours covering more than 5,000,000
miles. I was the z2qqth pilot hired by American Airlines and today I
stand number 121 on their seniority list of over 1600 pilots. I expect to
be one of the first to fly the supersonic transports when they are put into
scheduled service within the next decade.

My family is my biggest interest. My daughter, Susan, graduated from
Pine Manor Junior College, married a teacher at the Fessenden School,
spent a year in England while her husband taught as an exchange teacher,
returned for another year at Fessenden and is now living in Bellingham,
Massachusetts, with her two children and husband, who is now in the
insurance business. My eldest son, Terry, graduated from Governor
Dummer Academy and is now in the Class of 1965 at Harvard. My mid-
dle son, Jeff, also graduated from Governor Dummer Academy and is
in the Class of 1967 at Kenyon College in Ohio. My youngest son,
Jamie, is attending Palos Verdes High School here at home.

Outside my family and profession, my interests are stretched between
sailing, soaring, and skiing. At present I am a sailor without a boat, a
soarer without a sailplane, and a skier with beat-up skis, but I intend to
remedy this situation! Perhaps I will find a way to sail my own boat
to my Fortieth Reunion as it probably wouldn’t be practical to glide to
Boston or even go on skis!

= scemmanamsnasensi tases teste ELEC ENN ttt ae a,

328 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

WARRICK ELGIN ELROD, JR.

 

HOME AppDRESS: 7822 Fulbright Ct., Bethesda, Md. 20034.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fourteenth Street and Independence Avenue, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Atlanta, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEGREES: A.B., 1939; a.m. (Northwestern Univ.),
1948; a.m. (George Washington Univ.), 1959,

MARRIED: Nancy Elmore Raines, Aug. 28, 1940, CHILDREN: Warrick Elgin, 3d,
April 13, 1942; Norman Raines, Aug. 5, 1945.

occupation: Economist (international finance); chief, International Monetary
Branch, U.S. Department of Agriculture.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.; Princeton Club of Washington,
D.C.,, and New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Several publications in government series and journals; “Monetary
Effects of Financing Government-To-Government P.L. 480 Programs”; book
reviews in journals,

When one approaches a date which measures exactly a quarter of a
century since he completed his undergraduate years, he really does not
need a request for an autobiographical sketch to make him take stock.
If 1 am honest with myself, I know that the stock taking is generally
good. | have yet to accomplish one or two major tasks that I have set
for myself. But health has been excellent, finances just enough insufficient
to keep me responsive to incentive, sufficient enough to provide a good
life. No major tragedies have marred the family life, and somehow my
wife has managed to put up with me, and that I know is one damned
difficult task. 1 am inordinately proud of two sons, Warrick, 3d and
Norman. By the time this Report is issued the first will be ready for his
senior year in college, and the other will have completed his preparatory
education and been admitted to college, Both are far superior to what my
inexperienced father’s hand could ever have led anyone to expect.

My career has been both interesting and uneventful, satisfying and
frustrating, its fruits both useful and useless. Ten years in private in-
dustry generally bored; at least 1 aged and, hopefully, matured. Ten
years as a career diplomat in the Forcign Service gave me more than my
share of opportunities to enjvy interesting experiences by being in right
places at right times, A year at Princeton (1954-55) as a State Depart-
ment Fellow started me on the road of professional economics, a field in
which I have found many satisfactions. In 1959 [left the Foreign Service,
primarily to permit our sons to enjoy a stable education, but also from a

_—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 329

feeling that, despite my own successful advancement, the service was de-
clining. I think it continues to decline although many outstanding officers
are to be found in the service. My service years gave my family and me
the opportunity to travel extensively, mainly in Europe. I have also
traveled in the Near East, the Caribbean area, and will travel again within
the year in Europe and South America. Two and one-half years at the
Board of Governors of the Federal Reserve System were intellectually
profitable, after which I took my present position when it was offered in
early 1962. It seems an unlikely place for me as I scarcely know a peanut
from a bean; however, U.S. agricultural assistance represents about one-
fourth of free world economic aid to the developing countries and the
financial implications are many and more sophisticated than is generally
believed. For the past four years I have also taught one course per
semester, first at the George Washington University where I taught basic
economics and money and banking, then at the National War College and
the Industrial College of the Armed Forces where I taught, and continue
to teach, intermediate or advanced economic theory.

I continue to find pleasure in the family, in reading and writing, in
tennis, good music and good conversation. I avoid, as I would the
plague, joining anything but pleasant clubs, seek privacy at every oppor-
tunity, intend to retire as soon as possible, and sincerely regret that the
masses revolted with a vengeance in my time. I have done my share of
civic duty, however, helping to raise funds for churches and for
schools my sons have attended, working on school committees, and vot-
ing my convictions at every opportunity. I remain, I hope, a respectable
Episcopalian. My political views remain fairly stable, perhaps a shade
less liberal than in past years. By developing an amused philosophical
detachment I have become able to tolerate most of what goes on in
Washington. I will likely avoid the Reunion, not that Harvard has not
left me with deep gratitude for what it gave to me nor that I think of my
classmates without affection. I just do not believe in going home again.
And I fear I think about this Class Report as did one of our esteemed
colleagues on the occasion of the Twentieth Report: the money might
have been better spent otherwise. But I have enjoyed reading past Re-
ports and am proud of being a member of what was, and 1s, a very fine
Harvard class.

EDWIN SHEDD ELWELL, JR.

330 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HOME ADDRESS: 2012 James Ave., S., Minneapolis 5, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Northland Milk and Ice Cream Co., 11 W. 28th St., Minneapolis
8, Minn.

PREPARED AT: Blake School, Hopkins, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: $.B., 1939.

marrieD: Ellen Louisa Johnson, Aug. 30, 1941. curLpREN: Eleanor Louisa, Dec. 24,
1943; Priscilla Alden, Aug. 24, 1945; Edwin Shedd, 3d, March 28, 1950.

occupaTIoN: Chairman of board, overall administration, dairy products distribu-
tion.

MEMBER OF: Rotary: Masons; Shrine; Minneapolis Athletic Club; Minikahda
Club; Civil War Round Table.

After leaving Harvard, I went to work in a family business, Northland
Milk and Ice Cream Company. In 1941 1 was married to Ellen Louisa
Johnson. I was drafted into the Army in March, 1942, and spent most
of the war in Texas and Oklahoma as a lieutenant in the Field Artillery.
I went to the Philippines near the end of the war and was in the occupa-
tion troops on Hokkaido. I came home in early 1946, and before ending
my connections with the Army, was promoted to captain.

We had two daughters while I was still in the Army. Eleanor has com-
pleted two years at Jackson (Tufts) and now is taking her junior year
in France. Priscilla is a freshman at the University of Pennsylvania. Our
son, Ted, is in the eighth grade at my old prep school, Blake.

Iam a Civil War buff, and we have had several trips to Florida, and
have varied the route to visit many of the battlefields. Duck hunting,
skiing and golf are my principal sports. The whole family is liberal
Republican and Episcopalian.

About a year ago, I joined a partnership to operate a retail liquor store.
The store had been closed for about eighteen months, because the City
Council and a Grand Jury had misgivings about the previous owners.
This seemed an opportunity to bring some respectability to this enter-
prise and to help business in the area. It was also a wonderful education
in local politics.

I still work for the Northland and at the present time am chairman of
the board. I have attended a couple of seminars at the Harvard Business
School sponsored by Y.P.O. Occasionally, milk conventions or college
visits have also brought me back to Cambridge,

ARNOLD SAMUEL ENGELMAN

ce

ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 331

HOME appress: 1805 Washington Blvd., Parkersburg, W. Va.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Jeanette’s, 604 Market St., Parkersburg, W. Va.
PREPARED AT: Parkersburg High School, Parkersburg, W. Va.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEcREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Divorced.

occupation: Merchandise manager, partner, Jeanette’s, women’s wearing apparel.

Upon receiving this request for an autobiographical sketch for the
25th Anniversary Report of Harvard 1939, 1 relapsed into a state of
shock. I certainly can’t be this old. I was only able to change this
mood superficially by the purchase of a sports car. Driving this about,
1 at last feel much younger.

After graduation I entered the family business — the retailing of wom-
en’s wearing apparel. Still in the same business, though now an equal
partner with full merchandising responsibilities.

There were two major catastrophes in my life. One was resolved by
my discharge from the Army in 1946, with the rank of first heutenant,
and the other by a divorce in 1952. However, I can say that my army
career, for the most part, was very pleasant — living in Paris for fourteen
months, ostensibly helping run different railroad stations as either a pas-
senger or freight rail transportation officer.

At the present my spare time is expended for the most part by play-
ing golf and duplicate bridge, smoking good cigars and reading. Politi-
cally, I feel that voting the Democratic ticket is the lesser of two evils —
1 am not a “Southern” Democrat, probably would be considered an in-
dependent liberal.

JAMES RADFORD ENGLISH, JR.

   
    
   

~

HOME ADpRESS: 5 Walworth Ave., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREsS: J. Walter Thompson Co., 420 Lexington Ave., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. prcREES: .B., 1939; m.p.a. (New York Univ.), 1954.

MARRIED: Caryl Hadsell, Sept. 26, 1942. CHILDREN: Pamela W., July 16, 1946;
Michael B., Jan. 6, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Advertising agency, vice-president, media director.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Community Association; secretary, Velunteer Firemen;
board member, local Boy Scout Council.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Racquet and Tennis Club, New York;

Ko

332 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Scarsdale Golf Club; Stage Harbor Yacht Club, Chatham, Mass.; Mt. Mans.
field Ski Club.

A fine liberal arts education plus some background in minor sports and
beer drinking has proved of great value and much satisfaction over the
years. In early summer after graduation, however, it was a sketchy
recommendation for getting a job, After “checkquered” career as bank
messenger boy, solved the employment problem by enlisting as Naval
Aviation cadet in late 1940.

Separated from Navy as lieutenant commander in late 1945, having
served as carrier fighter pilot with overseas service primarily in South
Pacific Theatre. Also having become married in September, 1942, to
Cary] Hadsell (Wellesley °41).

Secured job in Chicago with A.C. Neilsen Company, marketing re-
search firm, and celebrated return to civilian life with birth of first
child, daughter Pamela, in July, 1946. Maintained active flying status in
Naval Reserve and enrolled in night school courses in Northwestern
University School of Commerce. Having been a highly provincial east-
erner (New York-Boston orbit), found much interest in contrasting my
education with that of my Big Ten alumni friends. Recognizing this
as an overstatement, it seemed to me that most had been studying business-
letter-writing in the years when I had been listening to Ted Spencer
discuss Shakespeare. So in the postwar years, they read “Hamlet” while
I studied business-letter-writing.

Transferred to New York in 1949 and celebrated return to New York-
Boston orbit with birth of second (and last, to date) child, son Michael,
January, 1950. Continued night school studies culminating in M.B.A.
degree from NYU in 1954, fifteen years following Harvard commence-
ment. Retired from Naval Reserve but continue aviation activities as
hobby and personal transportation with commercial license plus multi-
engine and instrument ratings. Other expensive hobbies including skiing,

golf, sailing and indoor racquet games.

Moved from marketing research to advertising agency environment
and enjoy media responsibility for J. Walter Thompson Company.
Since this is a business of communications, find Harvard education — or
at least the memories and intellectual training —to have helped profes-
sionally in some direct ways, more importantly in expanding the interest
and giving substance to a few imaginative ideas. Business-letter-writing
courses of more specific help at first.

Home life has centered around community activities, many related to
children. As they approach college age and waning of personal athletic
stamina seems all too imminent, am grateful for resources of the mind de-
veloped, in spite of myself, as an undergraduate.

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 333

ALANSON TRASK ENOS, Ill

  

HOME ApprEss: 99 Park Ave., Greenwich, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Stearns & Beale, 150 Varick St., New York 13, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Alice Hayward Plimpton, Aug. 12, 1939. cur~pren: Alanson Trask, 4th,
May 31, 1940; Alice Hayward, Dec. 22, 1941; Martha Plimpton, March 25,
1945; Jean Taylor, Oct. 2, 1947.

occupation: Offset color lithographer; president, Stearns & Beale.

OFFICES HELD: Representative, 1947-63, Finance Committee representative, 1955-63,
Town Meeting, Greenwich, Conn.; district chairman, 1958-63, director, Metro-

politan Lithographers Association, 1955-63; member, Labor Negotiating Com-
mittee, 1955-63.

MEMBER OF: Belle Haven Club, Greenwich, Conn.

Two months after graduation I was married and went to work in New
York City with Lentheric, a subsidiary at that time of E.R. Squibb.

One evening in October, 1940, our telephone rang and I was informed
that I had been ordered to active duty in the U.S. Navy, and shortly
thereafter I was on my way to Panama attached to the USS Breckinridge
DD148 as its most junior officer. Thirty-six months of sea duty passed
rather quickly while the “Breck” worked out of Panama, Key West Sonar
School, St. Lucia, and convoy duty between Key West, Guantanamo and
Trinidad.

From the Breckinridge 1 was transferred to the USS Badger DID126 as
commanding officer, where I remained until after V-E Day. The Badger
while I was on board performed convoy escort duty to Casablanca,
Bermuda, and the Caribbean, following which she worked out of Fort
Lauderdale, Florida, with the Anti-Submarine Development Group, At-
lantic Fleet. My last duty on the Badger after V-E Dav was at the Phila-
delphia Navy Yard with eleven other World War I Destroyers under-
going decommissioning and eventual scrapping. I found myself in the
awkward position of being senior officer among the group with no
formulated directives from the Navy regarding scrapping of ships.

Shore duty in the Fleet Administrative Office at the Boston Nav y Yard
followed my detachment from the Badger, where I remained ‘until I
was released to inactive duty after V-J Day.

We moved to Greenwich, Connecticut, after the war, and I went to

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

334 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

work in New York City with Stearns & Beale, an offset color litho
ing company founded in 1857. In 1954 I became president of thie Ph
pany after the death of my father. com

Our four children are fully grown. Alan graduated from Exeter
a year in the U.S. Marine Corps and has one more year before ant
ation from the University of North Carolina. Alice graduated fro du.

Timothy’s, Bradford Junior College, and last spring from the Unive, St.
of Michigan. Martha is a graduate of St. Timothy’s and is in her aay
year at Bradford. Jean is in her second year at Foxcroft. st

Each year we count off the days remaining until we can once aga;
spend our vacation in Canada on Lake Timagami, living in our log chin
and enjoying the healthy outdoor life of canoeing, fishing, tennis and
camping.

Life is indeed full for us this fall. Alice’s wedding to John Welsh
Stokes, a Harvard graduate, is on the 14th of December. My dear wife
appears to have the situation well in hand, and I marvel at how she jg
able to make all the wedding arrangements along with her other com-
munity activities.

My visits to Harvard since graduation have been all too infrequent
yet | deeply value the education which it gave to me and the friendships
which I made. At the Twenty-fifth Reunion I hope to peer into the past,
partake of the present, and frame hopes for the future.

JOSEPH DONALD ENTERLINE

    

HOME appress: 405 Ponderosa, Reedley, Calif.

OFFICE abpRress: Kings View Hospital, Reedley, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Natrona County High School, Casper, Wyo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1939, bECREES: A.B., 1939; m.p., 1943.

marriep: Ida Woods, September, 1946 (died May, 1962); Carol Lee Armstrong,

May, 1963. CHILDREN: Donna Sue, Oct. 22, 1947; David Evan, Oct. 14, 1949.
occupation: Psychiatrist.

After graduation 1 attended Harvard Medical School, graduated in
1943, spent fifteen months doing a surgical internship at the Massachusetts
General Hospital and then served two years in the Army as 2 medica
officer in the Philippines and Japan. In 1946 1 married Ida Woods, 4
school teacher, who shared four years of general practice, five ycars ©

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 335

x chiatric residency, and seven years of institucional psychiatric prac-
‘ice until her death in an auto accident last year. She mothered our two
children, Sue sixteen, David fourteen, who attended Reedley High
School. Sue 3s thinking in terms of Stanford and has academic talents.
David has a love for animals, particularly dogs, and may be planning on
a career in veterinary medicine. .

Since 1959 | have had a full-time position on the psychiatric staff of
Kings View Hospital, an excellent small psychiatric facility sponsored by
the several Mennonite churches. This May, our medical record librarian,
Carol Armstrong, who came to us from Ontario, Canada, and I were
married. We share similar attitudes about life and enjoy hobbies of
bowling, golf and bridge. She is gradually shifting into her new role and
is still holding a half-time position at the hospital.

DAVID SCHAFFER EPSTEIN t¢

 

LAST MAILING appress: R.F.D. 3, Locust Road, Greenwich, Conn.

STANLEY MURRY EPSTEIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 171 Dorset Rd.. Waban, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: 209 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED aT; New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; LL.B» 1942.

336 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

marrteD: Ann Prince, March 3, 1951. cuipren: Carol Sue, Nov. 27, 1951; Roger
Michael, July 17, 1954; Eric Prince, March 23, 1956,

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Civic and charitable organizations: director, Newton Community
Chest & Council, Newton Red Cross; co-chairman with Ann, Newton United
Fund; past offices in combined Jewish Appeal; faculty, Northeastern Uni-
versity; Bar Association, committee chairman of law survey.

MEMBER OF: Boston and Massachusetts Bar Associations; Massachusetts Trial
Lawyers’ Association.

pusLicaTions: Author, “Law Economics Practice Survey — Introduction,” Boston
Bar Association Bulletin, January, 1964.

The four years at the College were followed by three years at Harvard
Law School. The rigor of its preparation for a professional career has
been the hallmark of the Law School curriculum. It left its indelible
mark like a seal that overlay the imprint of the College.

Thirteen months Army service both casual and bordering on the
comical did not obscure the immensity of the holocaust through which
our generation was passing.

My first legal job was law clerk to Judge Charles E. Wyzanski, Jr.,
of the U.S. District Court of Massachusetts, later Chairman of the Board
of Overseers of Harvard University. This opportunity for an unexcelled
view of the law in action was accompanied by a kindly judicial toler-
ance for the awkwardness with which I approached the task. I have
still a warm awareness of the legacy of understanding it left of the roles
of law, judge and lawyer.

Following the clerkship, two years were spent as a junior in the law
firm of Mintz, Levin & Cohn in Boston, developing a general background
in business and corporate law. I then went into my own office intending
to develop trial experience.

I enjoyed trial experience in a variety of cases and courts. I repre-
sented sponsoring groups before the Massachusetts Legislature in the
matter of passage of the Fair Educational Practices Act. I did some
teaching evenings at Northeastern University.

Marriage replaced the sporadic blessings of bachelorhood. And I
moved into Hancock Village. Daughter Carol arrived and was joined by
equally precocious and precious but differing Roger and Eric. I recall
no course offered by the University on parenthood. Obviously this
craft can only be learned, not taught.

Subsequent suburban living in Waban, Massachusetts, took its toll of
time by numerous community, civic activities, committees, offices, each
with own disciplines and reminder of other obligations. Squash, tennis,
skiing, fishing and vacations have become necessary “optional” activities.
The net result of these —law practice, family, community activity —
aside from the annihilation of time, has been the obliteration of oppor-
tunity for reflection. One of the unexpected benefits of writing this
autobiographical note has been the taking stock, the introspection and
the benefit of this self-measuring. Several false starts in the writing of it
have convinced me that it should be done during moments of euphoria or
at least during the playing of heroic music,

The best appraisal of our generation’s background and qualification
for responsibility was published in the inaugural address of our late be-
loved President John F. Kennedy. The chance of fulfillment, the ability

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 337

to endure, to persevere and to aspire are in no small measure drawn from
the strength Harvard had and has to share.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1017 Winwood Drive, St. Louis 24, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Better Roofing Materials Co., 6230 Olive St. Rd., St. Louis 30, Mo.

PREPARED AT: Soldan High School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DECREE: s.B., 1939(40).

MARRIED: Doris Jean Bogan, Aug. 1, 1942. cHILpREN: Bill, June 25, 1943; Richard,
May 7, 1946; Ellen, June 29, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Business executive; varied business interests, primarily concerned
with building material industry, and other investments.

OFFICES HELD: Member, advisory committee, Mound City Trust Co. (bank);
board of trustees, Ethical Society of St. Louis.

MEMBER OF: Ethical Society; Harvard Club; numerous business clubs.

1931-41 — sales work; 1941-46 — Army Air Force; 1946 to present —
business activities in the building material industry, concerned mainly
with the wholesale distribution of building products.

Married in 1942. Have a boy now twenty years old and a junior at
Grinnell College, another boy seventeen enters college next fall, and a
daughter, fifteen, finishing her second year of high school.

I have devoted the usual amount of hours to the typical family and
community activities ~ none of which would interest any old classmates.

I am all of the following:

. Ten pounds overweight
. Baldish

. Poor golfer

. Independent voter

. Constant pipe smoker

. Healthy

. Happy

NSIT AM RW N

| en ih Seton enna LZ

Q HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Nad
we

WILLIAM BENEDICT ERNST, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 258 Burroughs Drive, Snyder 26, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lockwood Library, State University of New York at Buffalo,
Buffalo 14, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Roxury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; a.m., 1946; sS.B. IN L.s. (Sim-
mons Coll.) , 1948.

MARRIED: Jeannette Blackstone Reed, Dec. 22, 1944. cHILDREN: Caroline Elizabeth,
May 10, 1946; Reed Blackstone, June 19, 1949; Christine Kidder, May 17, 1954.

occupation: Associate director of libraries, State University of New York at

Buffalo.
MEMBER OF: American Library Association; New York Library Association;
Harvard Club of Buffalo.

I, having made the decision to leave Cambridge in 1960, suddenly
realized that I had been at Harvard, in one guise or another, for twenty-
five years. After graduation I had two years of graduate work which
were interrupted by four and a half years in the Army — at OCS, Fort
Benning, Georgia, and two years in the Aleutian Islands. I received my
A.M. in 1946, followed by a change in interests — from fine arts and mu-
seums to libraries, Simmons College granted me an S.B. in Library Sci-
ence in 1948, earned while working in Widener’s Catalog Department.
The staff for the new undergraduate library was then being formed, and
I joined Lamont Library in the fall of 1948. Twelve interesting years
followed helping to develop a new idea in librarianship. There were
many chances to learn and to experiment. By 1956 I was Assistant Li-
brarian for Undergraduate Services, and as such, librarian of Lamont.

In 1960 I was given the opportunity to become assistant director of
libraries at the then University of Buffalo. A promise of challenge and
excitement has been fulfilled. The great need for higher education facili-
ties in New York State changed the emphasis of the university from an
undergraduate school to a graduate center, In 1962 the University of
Buffalo merged with the State University and we are now in the midst of
an expansion explosion. Bureaucracy can be frustrating and lack of
space aggravating, but when so much needs to be done and the chal-
lenge is so great, then the minor irritations can be ignored,

Life is pleasant within and without the academic commmunity. Buffalo
is a friendly city and a good place to live in, despite its fame. I feel

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 339

my advancing age as my eldest girl goes through the furor of entering
college.

Harvard has given me much—both through my college years and
the professional experience gained. A change in administration in Wash-
ington would give me greater confidence in the future. In spite of every-
thing, however, I don’t think the world is about to disintegrate.

     
  

JAMES ETMEKJIAN

    

“
: " ey 3s
é ’ ,

HOME ADDRESS: 61-20 228th St., Bayside, N.Y. 11364.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Queens College, Kissena Blvd., Flushing 67, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Brighton High School, Brighton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1942;
PH.D. (Brown Univ.), 1958.

MARRIED: Lillian Krikorian, June 29, 1952. cHiLpREN: Charles, June 16, 1953;
Roxanne, July 12, 1956.

occuPaTion: Assistant professor of Romance Languages and supervisor of student
teachers in foreign languages, Queens College.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, International Institute of Boston, 1950—
52, National Association for Armenian Studies and Research, 1956-62; mem-
ber, Committee on Articulation and Lengthening of Sequences, 1960, Commit-
tee on Programmed Learning, 1961, American Association of Teachers of
French (AATF).

MEMBER OF: American Association of Teachers of French; Modern Language
Association; American Association of University Professors; National Asso-
ciation for American Studies and Research.

PUBLICATIONS: A Graded West Armenian Reader, 1963; The French Influence on
the Western Armenian Renatssance, 1963; Speaking French, co-author, 1963;
Le Francais causeant, co-author, 1964; “French Literature and the Armenian
Romantic Movement,” numerous other articles.

The year 1939 was not the best time in history to graduate from col-
lege. The depression was not yet over when we received our degrecs
from President Conant’s hands, International events were moving in-
exorably toward World War II. Under these conditions an A.B. in
romance languages was not a good passport to a job even in teaching.
Schools were not adding to their faculties and old teachers seemed never
to reach retirement age.

My first job was as part-time library assistant in one of the branches
of the Boston Public Library, While the work was pleasant it did not
pay enough to encourage continuing in it, The next logical thing for a

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

340 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Person with my background was to enroll in the Harvard Gr
School of Education. That immediately opened the door to my fr
teaching position at the Dana Hall School in Wellesley, Massachiusern.
Nearly ten years as a teacher of Spanish, head of the Spanish De are
ment, and chairman of the Department of French and Spanish Was fok
lowed by a one-vear stint at Milton High School in Milton, Massachy,
setts, as a teacher of French. The next stop was Wellesley Senior Hi h
School, After a brief period as French teacher I had the good fortune 0
be appointed head of the Department of Foreign Languages (French
German, Latin, Spanish) in the senior and junior high schools. ,

The 1950s were feeling the changes which had come about as a result
of our experience in the crash language programs undertaken in the
various Armed Services schools. The old concept of teaching foreign
languages mainly for reading gave way to the philosophy of language
as primarily oral communication. FLES ( foreign languages in elementa;
school) became increasingly popular. We had to change our programs
and our ways of teaching. We had to retrain teachers in the new tech.
niques. We had to cope with the problem of articulation between the
lower schools and the high school. We had to install and learn how to
use a language laboratory. It was a difficult but exciting period full of
frustrations and rewards.

It was also during this time that I met my wife. We have been
happily married and are now the parents of a ten-year-old son and a
seven-year-old daughter. It was after marriage that I finally decided to
go to Brown for my Ph.D., which I received after a year of residence
and two years of working on my dissertation while devoting full time to
my duties at Wellesley.

In 1961 I was offered a post as assistant professor of romance languages
and supervisor of student teachers in foreign languages at Queens Col-
lege of the City University of New York. We are all very happy with
our new environment. [ like so much the challenge of my new position
that I wish I had made the change earlier. As I look back on my twenty-
five years of teaching I am more convinced than ever that my choice of
profession was right for me. None other could have contributed so much
to my intellectual growth and happiness.

aduate

ALAN SOMERS EVANS

    

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 341
poxess: 1631 S. Broad St., Philadelphia 48, Pa:

HOME A ppress: N. W. Ayer & Son, Inc., Washington Square, Philadelphia 6, Pa.

OFFICE ‘ at: Ridley Park High School, Ridley Park, Pa.

PREPARE OLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

Cc
TENE: Rosalind Mastrangelo, Feb. 14, 1946. cup: Alan Somers, Jr, Aug.

20, 1947.

occupation: Manager,

Accounting for twenty-five years of life brings one conclusion: it has
one by very fast and has been full of many things.

After graduation and several months traveling, I joined N. W. Ayer
and Son, a fine Philadelphia advertising agency. This association has con-
rinued, except for the war years.

In 1941, I entered the Navy, largely because of a long-time love of
boats and the sea. So my first assignment was a shore job. This turned
out to be an extremely interesting experience, involving work for Naval
Intelligence on subversive activities. At lasted over a year and stimulated
an interest in this field which continues today. Next, sea duty in the
Pacific as executive officer on a destroyer. We were in most of the
action, winding up with surrender ceremonies in Japan.

Back to civilian life and marriage to a very lovely woman. The years
since have been full of many things. Various assignments in various parts
of the country; travel; friends, both close by and far away —the best
thing to accumulate in life.

In recent years, we have settled again in Philadelphia, living in a big,
old house which we have gradually restored. Rosalind has a sure eye in
this, and deserves all the credit. A summer home on the New Jersey
shore satisfies the urge for the sea. There is swimming, fishing and tennis
in the summer, squash in the winter and a continued spectator interest
in most sports. Rosalind and I share an interest in good music, both
classical and jazz, and the theatre. Church work is important to us, and
I have been rector’s warden at St. Mark’s Episcopal Church for some
time, Also, I have continued my association with the Navy through
Reserve duty.

_ And, of course, there is our son who now towers over us. He is active
In sports and also manages to get good grades. So we are hopeful he will
be accepted at Harvard in the fall of 1965.

We have been blessed with good health, a fine family, and generally a
full and satisfying life. We look forward with interest to the next twenty-
five years,

outdoor department, advertising agency.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Lo)
+
tw

DAVID JAMES EVANS, JR.

 

BORN: Oct. 13, 1915, Montreal, P.Q., Canada. parents: David James Evans, Rosa-
mond Allen.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936.
piep: Feb. 15, 1936, Boston, Mass.

David James Evans, Jr., died during his freshman year with our Class,
He was survived by his mother and a sister.

RICHARD RICE EVANS

 

HOME appress: 13709 Cormere Ave., Cleveland 20, Ohio.

OFFICE ApuRESS: Cleveland Clinic, 2020 E. 93d St., Cleveland 6, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Phillips. Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

veans IN COLLECE: 1933-1939. DECKEES: a.B., 1939; m.p. (Albany Medical Coll.),
943,

Marniep: Wilma A, McVey, Sept, 26, 1942, cuioken: Judith Anne, Nov. 17,
1953; David Winslow, July 29, 1955; Thomas Christopher, July 6, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Physician; staff, Division of Medicine, Cleveland Clinic,

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in medicine, Massachusetts Ceneral Hospital, 1952-54;
Cleveland Clinic, since 1954; various offices, Cleveland Allergy Society.

MEMBER GF: American Academy of Allergy; Cleveland Allergy Society; Cleve-
Jand Skating Club.

piBLscaTions: Collaboration on a few papers in the medical literature.

cr

ee

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 343

After four years at Albany Medical College and seven months as
pathology intern at Massachusetts General Hospital, 1 spent two and a
half years in the Army, chiefly in Belgium, France and England. Then
came three years as resident in medicine at West Roxbury (Mass.) V.A.
Hospital. I entered practice in allergy and internal medicine in associa-
tion with Dr. Francis M. Rackemann in Boston in 1949, and at the M.G.H.

_In 1954 1 joined the Cleveland Clinic where I have continued to prac-

tise allergy and internal medicine. Work is intensive, absorbing and
satisfying, and comprises chiefly medical practice, but also some post-
graduate teaching and a minimum of administration.

My avocation is family life, vacations fishing and splashing, spectator
sports, and as much tennis of the hacker type as I can manage.

OLIVER HURD EVERETT

    

aaa

HOME appress: 800 Forest Ave., Rye, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: De Coppet & Doremus, 72 Wall St., New York, N. Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: S.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Gwendolen Shethar, June 28, 1940. curLpREN: Gwendolen Noble, Sept.
19, 1941 (m. Charles M. Perkins, Nov. 17, 1961) ; Oliver Shethar, Dec. 2, 1943;
Alice Lesher, Dec. 8, 1947; Nicholas Shethar, Oct. 9, 1950. GRANDCHILD:
Heather Shethar Perkins, fall, 1962.

HARVARD SON: Oliver Shethar Everett, 66.

OCCUPATION: Stockbroker, member, New York Stock Exchange; associate broker
for De Coppet & Doremus.

MEMBER OF: American Yacht Club; Mystic Seaport.

In January, 1940, I purchased a seat on the New York Stock Exchange
and went to work for De Coppet & Doremus. Pearl Harbor put me in
the Navy until October, 1945, when I was released with the rank of
lieutenant commander. Back to Wall Street where, with an exception of
two years as a partner in Hornblower & Weeks (1948-49), I have con-
tinued my association with De Coppet & Doremus.

My other interests have centered around gardening and sailing. Lately
the children have taken over the sailing and I have become more intensi-
fied in the gardening.

344 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

MARTIN ADRIAN EVERS, JR.

Carte Pr te QR RIE ge er ggeege nae eek ont etawage yen
r WETS HAT, 1 * “y Pe Pe See petra ~ ey te ene onan
——,

  

HOME appress: 282 Annette Drive, Centerville, Ohio 45459.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3733 Wilmington Pike, Kettering, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.; Public
Latin School, Boston, Mass. -

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Frances Carr Reed, July 9, 1949. cuiLpren: Eva Ohlson, July 26, 1950;
Robert Reed, Oct. 6, 1952; Martin Adrian, 3d, June 13, 1956; Peter Carr,
Sept. 13, 1957.

OCCUPATION: President, Red Door Farms, Inc.; owner, Evers Company (dis-
tributor of spices and seasonings), Evers Brokerage Company (food), Evers
Company in Foreign Trade.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Dayton; Chamber of Commerce; Dayton Council
on World Affairs; Food Trade Association; Foreign Trade; etc.

Summarizing since graduation, went with Canada Dry Ginger Ale,
New York City, and was finally a jack of all trades setting up bottling
plants in the United States; before going into the Service, went with WPB
in Washington and Ottawa; in Service, was skipper of an LCI in the
South Pacific and ended up on MacArthur’s staff in Tokyo after learning
Japanese at Stanford, after the war, returned to Canada Dry in New York
City and later received franchise for the Canada Dry Bottling Company
of Dayton, of which I was president; sold out interest in Canada Dry and
started my own company distributing spices and seasonings and started a
small seasoning manufacturing company called Red Door Farms, Inc.

Since the Twentieth Anniversary Report I’ve continued to develop
these companies and added a food brokerage business. Am starting now
another company in international business, All my business activities are
tiny and terribly unimpressive, but I love the challenges and the laughs.
Was a member of the U.S. Trade Mission to Norway-Denmark in 1963.
We were in these countries for five and a half weeks — great countries,
great associates.

Politically, I ran the Citizens for Kennedy and Johnson in my county
in 1960 as a registered Republican. In 1962 I ran for Congress from this
Third District in Ohio as a Democrat — did very, very well but came in
second, The Democratic and Republican hacks loved me! This was most
enjoyable but awfully expensive. Guess I’m a bit of an odd ball but
don’t realize it. Politically, I feel that the guy and the gal — their hearts,
their minds, their spirits, their laughs, their crics, cheir drives — are much

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 345

more important than things — cars, houses, machines, TVs, etc. —I feel
that the latter must serve the former. I believe very strongly in the free
enterprise system with its responsibilities and its benefits, but we do the
free enterprise system a great disservice by looking only at its benefits.
And I find its responsibilities more invigorating and challenging than its
benefits. Also, I talk of OUR government and OUR President Eisen-
hower and OUR President Kennedy because | AM one of the grains of
sand that make up this great nation.

I still laugh at myself and find this bald-headed guy a source of amuse-
ment. Have a fine fun family with a particularly lovely wife and children
who will, I feel sure, be better citizens and make greater contributions
to society than I have. And this is great with my bride and me. Re-
ligiously, ’'m a Unitarian, Life has given and is giving me many, many
benefits. I try at least to repay it. I don’t know that | succeed but I do

know that I enjoy trying. Won’t the Twenty-fifth Reunion be fun!
Wow!

WILLIAM PAINE EVERTS, JR.

 

HOME ApDpREsS: 246 Manor Drive, Mill Valley, Calif.

OFFICE appREss: Law Dept., Columbia-Geneva Steel Division, United States Steel
Corp., 120 Montgomery St., San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1940.

marRiIED: Caroline Lee Busk, April 15, 1950. cHILoREN: William Hamilton, Aug.

10, 1951; John Wadsworth, April 30, 1955; Robert Stockwell, May 11, 1956;
Frederick Busk, Oct. 7, 1959.
occupPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: California and San Francisco Bar Associations; Harvard Club of
San Francisco; Mill Vailey Tennis Club.

One recalls starting a first job in the fall of 1939 at a time when the
Germans were launching their invasion of Poland. If there had been any
idea that life was to be an orderly settling down (which, thanks in part
to our choice of college, I don’t think any of us held) the idea was dis-
pelled that September. While we didn’t “know precisely how our lives
would be affected by these events, there was mounting uneasiness. One

knew that what he was undertaking was not the start of an uninterrupted
career,

346 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

In my own case, I became a teacher at Kimball Academy, Meriden,
New Hampshire, teaching history and coaching tennis. Two rewarding,
outdoor years followed. In June, 1941, [ entered the Army in New
Hampshire as a private and was stationed at Fort Devens. Morale was
low in the Armed Forces that summer. “Over the hill in October”
was a familiar barracks cry. Then the Japanese changed all that, Subse-
quently | attended OCS at Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania, was assigned
to the Presidio of Monterey, California, and then went to the C-B-I.
Early in 1946 I was released from active duty as a captain.

During 1946-47, 1 was assistant headmaster of a boarding school for
boys of pre-preparatory age just being started in Canaan, New Hamp-
shire, the Cardigan Mountain School. Again, life as a school master in
the hills of New Hampshire was found full and satisfying. Horizons
were limitless in some respects, confining in others. A bachelor, with
mind that seemed rusty from army years, but with a storehouse of train-
ing available under the G.I. Bill, | decided to go to law school and re-
turned to Cambridge in the fall of 1947. The ensuing three years at
Harvard studying law, undertaken eight years after graduation from the
College, compounded an existing high respect and allegiance for the Uni-
versity. One’s mind was more fully employed at Harvard Law School,
it seemed, than anywhere under the sun.

In 1950 I married Caroline Lee Busk, daughter of F. Wadsworth Busk
of the Class of 1916. We lived in Cambridge and Andover, Massachu-
setts, while I was engaged in general law practice in Boston as an asso-
ciate with the firm of Johnson, Clapp, Ives & King. In 1954 I entered
government service as an attorney for the Atomic Energy Commission
at Hanford, Washington. For the past eight years I have been a member
of the Law Department, Columbia-Geneva Steel Division, United States
Steel Corporation in San Francisco, During much of this period I have
been teaching law at night at San Francisco Law School.

The fun of raising children — four sons in our family — needs but little
annotation, I am sure. They are the pace-setters. Their highs and lows
are contagious, affecting the whole household. When things are particu-
larly hectic, one feels a coward as he leaves for work in the morning,

Tennis remains an active interest and an enjoyable weekend pursuit.
Competition in tennis is keen in California. One misses the seasons here,
as well as kindred and old friends in the East, but life in Mill Valley is
good. Sometimes I think too good. One’s readiness to stir himself and
do a job of work not just for himself, his family, his client but for
others in the world is undermined by the very grace of his surroundings.
What about the Peace Corps? Lawyers are needed. Other such undertak-
ing? Before our Fiftieth Reunion, this tug-of-war should have been

resolved.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 347

WILLIAM ROSS EYLER

 

HOME ApbRESS: 18347 Bedford Rd., Birmingham, Mich. 48009.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Henry Ford Hospital, 2799 W. Grand Blvd., Detroit, Mich. 48202.

PREPARED AT: Thomas A. DeVilbiss High School, Toledo, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEcREEsS: a.B., cum laude, 1939; M.p., 1943.

MARRIED: Freda Jean Warner, June 13, 1942. cumoren: Lee Warner, Jan. 1, 1945;
Ross Warner, March 15, 1948; Steven William, Aug. 6, 1951; James W., Nov.

20, 1952 (adopted 1962); Ann E., Jan. 11, 1959; Marjory, Nov. 7, 1962
(deceased).

OCCUPATION: Physician, radiologist; chairman, Department of Radiology, Henry
Ford Hospital; assistant editor, Radiology.

OFFICES HELD: President, Detroit Roentgen Ray and Radium Society, 1961-62.
MEMBER OF: American College of Radiology (fellow); Radiological Society of

North America; American Roentgen Ray Society; Detroit Roentgen Ray So-
ciety; American Medical Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Twenty-six scientific papers concerned with medicine.

At Harvard Medical School, I first became interested in radiology, but
was discouraged by the apparent occult powers of some of the Boston
masters of the field. However, during two and a half years in the Army,
mostly in overseas general hospitals, I found that ordinary mortals could
also learn the art. The following six years were spent at the Massachu-
setts General Hospital doing same. A year in private practice convinced
me that it did not offer the challenge of large hospital practice; I joined
the staff of Henry Ford Hospital at Detroit,

The record of the last ten years would make dull reading for the Class
Report, but a very satisfactory account for the subject. I have enjoyed
this form of practice, with teaching and investigation taking a large part
of the available energy. Activities of the local and national societies and
of the journal Radiology have added much,

We continue to vacation in the Adirondacks, a taste for which we

acquired during college days. With a daughter at Radcliffe we appear
to have made one lap.

348 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

WILLIAM HUGH FAIN, JR.

 

BorN: July 15, 1917, New York, N.Y. parents: William Hugh Fain, Elizabeth
Finnigan.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1940. pEGREE: a.B., 1939(40).

marRiED: Marianne Fain (deceased). CHILDREN: Virginia; Nicholas.
prep: April 23, 1961, Paris, France.

While at college Fain was a resident of Leverett House and a member
of the House wrestling and boxing teams. For our Twentieth Anni-
versary Report he wrote that he was a novelist and racehorse owner and
living in Stonington, Connecticut. He had previously lived in Houston,
Texas, and New York City. He lived in Europe for several years before .
his death, He was survived by his children.

ERNEST EMILIO FALBO +

 

LAST MAILING appress: 49 Oliver St., Watertown 72, Mass.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 349

JOHN BERNARD FALLON

  
  

   

HOME ADDRESS: 839 Cumberland Rd., Glendale 2, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939(40).

MARRIED: Marian Stevens King, April, 1956. CHILDREN: Richard King, Nov. 28,
1958; Marian Stevens, July 11, 1960; Sylvia Stevens, Sept. 11, 1963.

OCCUPATION: Administrative assistant —- engineering.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

FRANK CHENEY FARLEY, JR.t+

   

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 24 Wall St., Stonington, Conn.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Nod
ay
©

* NOYES DAVID FARMER, JR.

 

BORN: June 24, 1917, Manchester, N.H. parents: Noyes David Farmer, Mary
Johnson.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Tufts College, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1936-1937.

MARRIED: Glenice L. Keller, September, 1939. cuitp: Joyce Elisabeth, May, 1943,

pieD: Killed in action, July 24, 1944, in Pacific area.

After a short time at Harvard, Farmer returned to Tufts College and
graduated in 1940. He was ordained into the Christian Ministry at the
Blaney Memorial Baptist Church in July, 1941. He served as pastor of
the First Baptist Church of Goffstown, New Hampshire, while attend-
ing the Harvard Divinity School during 1941-42. In July, 1942, he was
commissioned ensign in the U.S. Navy and after training at Harvard
College he saw service in the North African waters before being trans-
ferred to the Pacific theatre of war. He was promoted to lieutenant
(j.g.). Twice awarded the Purple Heart, he was killed in action aboard
the USS Norman Scott. He was survived by his wife and daughter.

WALTER SAMUEL FARRON

    

HOME ADDUESS: Circuit Drive, Stow, Mass,

orsice appHESs: Thayer Manufacturing Co,, Inc, Main Street, Maynard, Mass.
PREPAKED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, RL,

YEAKS INS COLLEGE: 1933-1937, 1938-1940. peceye: a.8., 1939040),

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 351

MaRRIED: Elaine Frances Cook, June 28, 1941. cHitpren: Donald Scott, Jan. 18,
1948; Nancy Elizabeth, July 29, 1950.

occuPATION: Manufacturing gift tye ribbons and cords, planning manager.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Norwich Rotary Club, 1952-60; member, board of di-
rectors, Eastern Connecticut Council, Boy Scouts; 1955-60.

MEMBER OF: Norwich Rotary Club; Harvard Club of Connecticut; Eastern Con-

necticut Council Boy Scouts; Stow Civic Club; Somerset Lodge No. 34
AF. & A.M.

After graduation I started in the insurance business but soon changed
to manufacturing in Norwich, Connecticut. Next came marriage, and
then the Army in this country and Europe for better than three years.
Once home and back at work the children arrived. The years passed too
rapidly while living and working in Connecticut. Work for the church,
the community, Boy Scouts and Rotary, the usual social activities were
interspersed with vacations at the ocean.

In 1960 the company, of which I was a part, was purchased by the
Dennison Manufacturing Company and moved to Maynard, Massachu-

setts. We all enjoy country living in New England and look forward
to many years of the same.

JAMES BURGESS FEARON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 113 Pleasant St., Framingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 102 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Marguerite Macomber, Dec. 28, 1939; Eleanor Kerns Harkless, Sept.
V7, 1963. cHitpReN: William Burgess, Feb. 19, 1941 (m. Tristram Coffin
Richards, Feb. 1, 1963); Hilary Hunt, Jan. 13, 1945; Christopher Gordon,
Aug. 24, 1948; James Burgess, Jr. March 26. 1954. John E. Harkless. 3d. Nov.

30, 1941; J. Wynne Harkless, Jan. 10, 1943; Leslie Harkless, Oct. 17, 1944
(stepchildren) .

OCCUPATION: Insurance broker.

Within a week of taking my last exam, was on my way to sunny Cali-
fornia to seek my fortune in the aircraft industry. Lockheed Aircraft in
Burbank was my base of operations, and the then smogless area of South-
ern California offered wondrous opportunities to enjoy all sorts of out-
door sports and living. The outbreak of hostilities broughe abour tre-
mendous changes, The small company of 3,200 for which | labored

352 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

grew to 82,000 in a period of five years with what I suppose was unde
standable havoc.

The U.S. Navy was my next effort for eighteen months, serving wi
what I believe to be the dubious distinction of being the oldest ensi;
in the Navy. Assigned to an A.P.A. in the Pacific, it was a treat
be able to stop in at my old homestead on the coast of China while ferr,
ing occupation troops. The decommissioning of my ship in Norfo
brought me back to Boston where I have since been engaged in the li:
insurance business as a salesman. I have found it to be a particularly re
warding experience not only from the point of view of meeting a lot ¢
people on a very personal basis but also in knowing that my efforts ca
bring a certain amount of peace of mind and stability when otherwis
there may have been none.

My children have been a constant source of pleasure, but I am some
times aghast at the pace and pressures to which they are subjected at al
levels. The adaptability of the human being is certainly a wondrou
thing to observe! The battle of the bulge continues unrelentingly. Ir
trying to keep control, sometimes not too successfully, I still play tennis

handball, and golf, but fear that the day is not too far off when the
progeny will be showing me how!

WILLIAM HARTE FELMETH

   

HOME appness: 1 N. Maple Ave., Basking Ridge, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Presbyterian Church, 10 S. Finley Ave. Basking Ridge, N.J.
PREPARED AT: Pingry School, Elizabeth, NJ.

YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. prGcREES: a.B., cum laude, 1939; TH.B. (Princeton
Sem.) , 1942; p.o. (Bloomfield Coll.) , 1963.

manrrisp: Katherine Jermain Porter, April 25, 1942. ceitpREN: Susan Katherine,
Feb, 24, 1945; Martha Anne, Jan. 31, 1948; Deborah Harte, Jan. 26, 1953.

occuPaTION: Pastor, Presbyterian Church.

OFFicks HELD: Moderator, Presbytery of Monmouth, 1950-51, Presbytery of
Elizabeth, 1960-61; chairman, National Missions of the Synod of New Jersey,
1951-59; member, board of directors, Bloomfield College, 1952-54, since 1960;

member, board of trustees, Gill School, since 1960.

The acquisition of bifocals and the departure of our eldest daughter
for her freshman year at Mount Holyoke both in the same week have

brought home to me vividly the ficeting passage of the years since we

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 353

were in Cambridge! I suspect the pattern of these years for me is not
too different from that of many of the Class save perhaps for the choice
of vocations and the subsequent kind of life in which I have been happily
involved. Upon graduation I began studies for the ministry at Princeton
Seminary but left there on the outbreak of World War Il to enter the
Service as a field artillery officer and not as a chaplain because of some
deep convictions I hold about the Christian’s involvement in life.

Married five days before leaving for overseas in mid-1942, I spent two
years in the deep freeze of the Aleutian Islands, returned to the States
for eight months of duty in Oklahoma, and then wound up my un-
distinguished military career with another somewhat warmer year over-
seas in France and Germany in an eight-inch howitzer battalion. Despite
or perhaps because of this prolonged absence, wedded life has been a
joyous blessing through these following years, and our home and our
family of three daughters have been deeply satisfying to my wife and
me, a focus of devotion and mutual nurture.

After the war I was called to the pastorate of the Presbyterian
Church in Cranbury, New Jersey, where I served for five years in the
midst of grand people who were very helpful and tolerant as I tried to
recoup my ministerial preparation so long unused in the military. In
1951 we moved to Basking Ridge to take up leadership of a congregation
which dates back to 1717 but which has a future even more exciting and
challenging than its heritage. Able business executives, brilliant scientists,
and plain people are joined in a good-sized suburban congregation which
has not fallen completely captive to its surrounding society and which
is earnestly attempting a relevant Christian witness and service in the
community through its dedicated and competent laity. I find the task
of pastor in such a burgeoning situation as ours exhausting, exhilarating,
and exciting!

Politically, my position is that of an Independent, but far from being
disinterested and uninvolved I vote in every election from dog catcher
on up and frequently address our legislators with letters of commenda-
tion and statements of conviction as well as notes of criticism. On social
issues, my attitudes are deeply affected by the New Testament and are in
consequence on the liberal side. Of all the issues facing our nation, the
problem of race relations is most imperative in its need of resolution.
While I am ashamed of much of the record of the Christian church in
this area, it is my conviction that ultimately the “ministry of reconcilia-
tion” will be accomplished most effectively by dedicated churchmen.

My religious convictions, which reached their nadir and minimum in
my sophomore year at college (how apt that adjective sophomoric ts!)
have now become the significant center of the orbit of my life and led
me to my present vocation. I won’t try to preach a sermon here but I
do find that for me and for many to whom I minister the Christian faith
holds the mystery and the understanding of our life and world in a way
that satisfies the heart, the mind, and the soul. After writing all this I
feel like Narcissus and shall promptly do penance by turning back to the
work of the pastorate.

354 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

RENDIGS THOMAS FEL

pct = oC antag vat atin a Een ge RR

        

HOME ApprEss: 917 Westview Ave., Nashville 5, Tenn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 1664, Vanderbilt University, Nashville 5, Tenn.

PREPARED AT: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m. (Colum.
bia Univ.), 1940; pH.p. (Harvard Univ.), 1948.

mMaRRIED: Beatrice C. Baker, Dec. 27, 1941. cHitpreN: Charles Wentworth Baker,
Feb. 26, 1943; Carmichael, Aug. 13, 1945.

occupation: Professor of economics and chairman, Department of Economics and
Business Administration, Vanderbilt University.

oFFIces HELD: Chairman, Universities-National Bureau Committee for Economic
Research, since 1962; member, board of editors, Southern Economic Associa-
tion, 1954-56, American Economic Association, 1959-61.

MEMBER OF: American and Southern Economic Associations.

PusLicaTions: American Business Cycles, 1865-1897, Chapel Hill: University of
North Carolina Press, 1959; Challenge to the American Economy: an Intro-

duction to Economics, Boston: Allyn & Bacon, Inc., 1961; about twenty articles
in professional journals.

Spent the first year after graduation at Columbia, then returned to
Harvard as a teaching fellow in economics. Married Bee Baker in 1941,
lived happily ever after. The Army kindly sent me to the Harvard
Business School late in 1942, where I got the degree of second lieutenant.
After several years in the AAF’s statistical control counting airplanes, J
switched to military government, a move that not only permitted me to
attend the University of Virginia and Northwestern, but also to spend
seven months in Japan, well beyond the time 1 would otherwise have
got out, in charge of price control, rationing, agriculture, forestry, fish-
ing, and mining for Kanagawa prefecture (which meant I had nothing
to do). Meanwhile, two sons were born, neither of whom could I per-
suade to apply at Harvard — one is now at Stanford, the other at Case
Institute of Technology.

After the war, two more years at Harvard as a teaching fellow and
finishing up a Ph.D. The last fifteen years at Vanderbilt University in
Nashville, Tennessee, and quite happy even though an unreconstructed
northerner. The usual academic activities — teaching (business cycles),
research, writing and, for the last year or so, department chairman.
Served for a year as director of the Graduate Program in Economic
Development, which led in 195% to a two-month trip around the world
— Madrid, Rome, Ankara, Istanbul, Beirut, Cairo, Amman, Karachi,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 355

New Delhi, Calcutta, Bangkok, Saigon, Manila, Hong Kong, Tokyo,
Seoul, all in sixty days, Last summer served on faculty of Salzburg
Seminar in American Studies, then two weeks in Beirut, followed by a
month in Nigeria, with the Economic Development Institute of the
University of Nigeria.

Bought a tennis court (a house came with it) in 1950, play badly but
often. Had the pleasure of having Johnny Wahlke at Vanderbilt for a
number of years, but he’s deserted us. Got to see something of Phil
Philbrick, my ex-roommate, when a visiting professor at Stanford in
1955, but our paths haven't crossed since. Can testify that Don Mc-
Donald, who looked after my boys when they went to school near him,
has a charming family.

PHILIP PATRICK FINN

    

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 188, New Castle, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., 1939; M.B.a, 1953.

marrieD: Ann Jane Theiler, Aug. 16, 1947. cHicpreN: Philip Theiler, Aug. 19,
1949; Ann Elizabeth, Jan. 19, 1951; Mary Patricia, Feb. 25, 1958 (died
April, 1958); John Marshall, Oct. 16, 1959; Michael Paul, Jan. 16, 1962.

OCCUPATION: Commander, U.S.N (retired); now engaged in private counseling.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Portsmouth Council Navy League, since 1963; chairman,
New Castle, N.H., School Board, since 1963; director, Portsmouth Industrial
Development Corporation, since 1963; vice-president, Six-Twenty Associates,
Inc., since 1963

MEMBER OF: Mechanic Fire Society; Portsmouth Yacht Club; Goat Island Yacht
Club; Wentworth Fairways.

After graduation, the next stop was to be the Business School but these
plans were canceled when | took a job as operations agent for American
Airlines — interesting but not lucrative. In August, 1941, 1 was called
to active duty in the Navy, switched to Supply Corps Regular Navy
and was attending Supply School at Harvard at the time of Pearl
Harbor. I served aboard the flagship U.S.S. Augusta during many opera-
tions in the Atlantic, including the landings in Africa, and then went to
Portsmouth (New Hampshire) Naval Shipyard, participating in the
accelerated submarine construction program. Aly next duty was supply
officer of the U.S.S. Louisville in the Pacific until she was decormmis-
sioned in 1946. By this time, Thad met Ann Jane Theiler who was my

356 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

sister’s roommate at Wellesley. In 1947, I came back from duty in .
Germany, married Ann Jane in Cincinnati and returned to Europe with
bride on the Queen Mary. We enjoyed our travels in Europe very much
but in 1949 we found ourselves at the Ammunition Depot in Hawthorne,
Nevada, where our first boy was born. After a tour at the Armed
Forces Statf College in Norfolk, the Navy fulfilled my original inten-
tions by sending me to Harvard Business School. After graduation, we
went to Washington, D.C., for two years and then I was assigned to the
U.S.S. Castor in the Pacific. This was particularly interesting since |
participated in the redesign of the ship and then put her into operation
as a floating retail issue store carrying over 70,000 items ranging from
tubes to tooth brushes. We serviced the Seventh Fleet in the Pacific and
were homeported in Yokosuka. ‘This enabled my family to have a very
pleasant two years in Japan. Then we came back to the Portsmouth
Naval Shipyard and the nuclear submarine program. We bought a
home in New Castle, New Hampshire, and liked it so much that in 1961
I requested voluntary retirement after completing twenty years service.
Since retiring, | have been involved in various personal projects, pri-
vate counseling, traveling extensively in Europe and some plain loafing.
Our oldest boy is a freshman at Governor Dummer, our daughter is in
the eighth grade, and the other two boys are preschool age. We all
enjoy this area, especially the boating in the summer and skiing in the

winter.

RICHARD BOSWELL FINN

21S SR NORTE RIES AEE gS

   
    

HOME AppRESS: 3044 Oliver St., N.W., Washington 15, D.C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Office of German Affairs, Dept. of State, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N.Y.
YEAKS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; Lu.B., 1942.
maniep: Dallas Rumsey, Radcliffe 41, Sept. 12, 1942. cHitpREN: Allison R., Nov.
20, 1948; M. Vaughan, July 23, 1951.

occtpaTION: U.S, Foreign Service.

I entered upon a diplomatic career somewhat by accident after World
War Il and have stayed with it. 1 went on to law school after college
and received an LL.B. in 1942. 1 got by the New York bar exam and

entered the Navy, where I was sent to learn Japanese. After a year in

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 357

Australia and another with the PT boats in the Philippines, I ended up
in Japan as a lieutenant shortly after Japan’s surrender. This was m
first taste of peaceful foreign policy, and I liked it. So I took the Foreign
Service exams in 1946, again got by and found myself back in Japan as
a diplomatic officer.

My wife and I spent seven years there. Our two daughters were born
in Tokyo, and we formed a lasting affection for both Japan and its
people. My wife acquired an expertise in the Japanese language and
culture that few foreigners can claim. My main work in the early 1950's
was to act as the repository of papers relating to the Japanese peace
treaty, a job which nicely combined legal and diplomatic background.

I then found myself thrust mto what has come to be known as
politico-military activities, where diplomatic and military officers work
together on our common problems. My first experience in this was the
security arrangement we worked out in Japan for the continued presence
of our armed forces there after the peace treaty. The problems ran the
gamut from labor, tax and jurisdictional matters, to the creation of
Japanese self-defense forces, all in the charged atmosphere of the
Korean War. I then had a stint in Washington, starting on the Japanese
Desk and then working as an assistant to the Deputy Under Secretary of
State, Robert Murphy, and ending with a year at the National War
College.

Paris was our next stop, first for two years as Political Adviser to the
U.S. European Command, which commands and controls some 300,000
USS. military personnel scattered from Lisbon to Peshawar and Oslo to
Addis Ababa, and then as military affairs officer at the Embassy in Paris,
again struggling with status of forces problems in France and also with
the French force de frappe and our prickly relations with France.

Now I find myself back in Washington as Deputy Director of German
Affairs. The German problem is of course a key one in our foreign
relations today, cutting across our Soviet policy as well as the future of
NATO and the economic ties between Western Europe and North
America. It sometimes strikes me as strange that my main work has
been on our two defeated rivals of World War Il— Japan and Ger-
many. But this is probably an obvious consequence of specialized work
in the politico-military field as well as the ironic fact that two key
nations in our foreign relations are Japan and Germany.

The Finn family is very happy to be back in Washington again. It
is particularly satisfying for our teen-age daughters who are in the
Sidwell Friends School. Nevertheless, we enjoy the Foreign Service and
feel it gives us a strong sense of participation and sometimes even of
accomplishment in the great events of our time. I sometimes wish I had
a little more money, but I feel that the US is taking increasingly good
care of its diplomatic officers. I also get annoyed with the bureaucracy
of the State Department and Washington; we in the career are on
occasion pushed around by a lot of short-time experts, but these are the
hard facts of our system. No doubt foreign relations are too important
to be left to the diplomats.

Needless to say, a Harvard background and the common bond it
provides with many colleagues has added to our enjovment of the
Foreign Service and, I hope, to the value of our contribution.

358 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

JOHN KAUFFMAN FISCHEL ¢

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: % St. Louis Union Trust Co., St. Louis, Mo.

DeWITT FISCHMAN

tT

    

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Varian Lane, Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Telephone Exchange, 4124 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. prcREE: a.s., 1939.

marRieD: Gloria R. Sverdlik, Aug. 19, 1945. cHiLpkEN: Joanne, Feb. 20, 1948;
Alan S., Feb. 20, 1951.

OCCUPATION; Communications services; owner, head of firm, Telephone Exchange.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 359

* BERNARD FISHER

 

BORN: Sept. 10, 1918, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Fisher, Annie Carrol.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1940;
PH.D., 1946.

piep: June 22, 1946, in the Aleutian Islands.

Bernard Fisher continued his studies at Harvard in the Division of
Geological Sciences until 1942 when he volunteered for the Army and
went to England as a second lieutenant in the Army Engineers. In 1944
he was promoted to captain and assigned to a group at Oxford pre-
paring military maps. He was released from the Army in 1945 and com-
pleted his thesis for the doctorate which he received in June, 1946. He
joined the U.S. Geological Survey and went to study the active volcanoes
of the Aleutian Islands. He was stationed at Umnak Island, Alaska,
when he was lost at sea. He was survived by his father.

AUGUSTUS HENRY FISKE, JR.

    

HOME Appress: R.F.D. 2, West Redding, Conn.

OFFICE aAppRESsS: 186 Greenwood Ave., Bethel, Conn.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B, 1939(40),

MARRIED: Elizaheth S. P, Loring, August, 1943 (divorced 1958); Jean S. Mann,

360 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

November, 1958. CHILDREN: Augustus Henry, 3d, August, 1946 (died March
1948); Gardiner H., October, 1949; Rosamond B., August, 1952.

occuPATION: President and chief engineer, Fiske Associates, Inc., creators of pre
cision electronic devices.

MEMBER OF: ASME; Acoustical Society of America; American Institute of
Physics; The Redding Players; Exchange Club of Redding; Newcomen
Society; Redding Choral Society; Potomac Diary Analysts.

Iam not a dilettante, just a hobbyist. The second definition in Web-
ster’s Collegiate Dicuonary of the word “hobby” is: “An engrossing
topic, plan, etc., to which one constantly reverts; also, an occupation or
interest to which one gives his spare time.” If this is true, I am a hobby-
ist. Life, itself, is “an engrossing topic.” After graduation and five years
in the Coast Guard, emerging as a lieutenant commander, I find myself
“constantly reverting” to my home and family, my business (Fiske Asso-
ciates, Inc.— does anyone need an Osmometer or Milk Cryoscope? ),
flying (private pilot's license), music (piano lessons, rebuilding pipe
organs, choral society and church choir singing), amateur theatricals (ex-
president and present treasurer of The Redding Players), skiing, sail-
ing, repairing toys, appliances, plumbing problems and paying bills.

What’s all this “spare time” business?

EDWARD FirzGERALD, JR.

    

HOME appRESS: 2702 Ravine Way, Green Bay, Wis.

OFFIce appress: H. C. Prange Co., 303 N. Washington St., Green Bay, Wis.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: 4.8., 1939.

marricp: Louise E. Herbert, Dec. 1, 1945. cHttpreEN: Philip Lawrence, Sept. 14,
1946; Eileen Frances, July 7, 1948; Rosemary, Oct. 11, 1951; Edward James,
Feb. 16, 1953; Ann Margaret, Sept. 13, 1957.

occupaTION: Divisional merchandise manager, H.C, Prange Company, department
store,

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Community Fund, 1954-55; chairman, Retail Di-

vision, Chamber of Commerce, 1955-56; president, Serra Club, 1956-57, all
Aurora, SIl.

mMemnes or: Serra Club of Green Bay, Wis.

After graduation I associated myself with the Brown and Sharpe
Company of Providence, Rhode Island, in their production control de-
partment. While there I won a low number in the government draft

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 361

lottery and enlisted in the Army early in the spring of 1941 to get my
year over with. However, this plan did not run true to course; my serv-
ices were retained until the cessation of hostilities.

The best part of returning home after three years in Africa and
Europe was the immediate marriage to my one and only “Louise.” We
settled in New York City where 1 was employed in the investment divi-
sion of the Irving Trust Company. Disillusioned about raising my family
in a metropolitan community, I decided to make a change. I joined the
executive training program of Interstate Department Stores in the Mid-
west and for ten years managed stores in Illinois and Wisconsin unul
this company drifted into the discount retail field. I declined to go
along and am currently associated as a merchandise manager with the
H.C. Prange Department Store in Green Bay, Wisconsin. We like this
section of the country tremendously, have grown accustomed to eating
bratwurst and are loyal supporters of the “Packers” who embody the
esprit de corps of the whole community.

My political convictions have not varied considerably since college
days. I am still a vociferous independent who is challenged on an
intellectual basis rather than by business or traditional party allegiances.
I have Harvard to thank for this “open mind” approach. Contrary to
the opinions of many of my contemporaries, I have extreme confidence
in the future greatness of our youth today. Current teen-agers are vitally
concerned with social involvement, and I am convinced that they will
vastly improve on our record in local, national and world affairs over
the past twenty-five years. My eldest son, Phil, is looking forward to

sharing in this challenge when he becomes a freshman in the Yard this
fall.

* WILLIAM CRAIG FLINN

 

BORN: March 29, 1918, Redwood Falls, Minn. PARENTS: Thomas Edwin Flinn,
Lucy Hyslop.

PREPARED AT: Redwood Falls High School, Redwood Falls, Minn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: s.B., 1939; M.p. 1943.
piED: July 7, 1945, in France.

After medical school Flinn interned at the Anker Hospital in St. Paul,
Minnesota, and was a diplomate of the National Board of Medical Ex-

362 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

aminers. He volunteered for the Army in December, 1943, and was
made a captain in the Medical Corps, serving with a hospital unit in
France. He was killed in a jeep accident in France. He was survived by
his mother.

RICHARD RUSSELL FLOOD

 

HOME appress: 24 Winsor Park Rd., Lowell, Mass.

orrice aporess: Flood, Valentine & Foisy, Appleton Bank Bldg., Lowell, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; LL.B. 1942/46); 14., 1943;
M.B.A., cum laude, 1947.

MARRIED: Jacqueline Hager Sanderson, June 18, 1955. cuitp: Richard Russell,
Jr. June 22, 1957.

occupation: Lawyer; member of firm of Flood, Valentine & Foisy.

OFFICES HELD: U.S, Commissioner, District of Massachusetts; trustee, Children’s
Hospital, Boston.

MEMBER OF: Yorick Club; Vesper Country Club; Lanam Club; Long Meadow
Golf Club; Ames Fish and Game Club; Harvard Club of Lowell; Lowell
Rotary Club; American, Massachusetts, Middlesex County and Lowell Bar
Associations.

One should do something worth writing about or write something
worth reading. [can do neither and, consequently, hesitate to take up
space among such illustrious company.

My graduate studies were interrupted by three years’ service as a
lieutenant in the Navy. my principal tour of duty being at Com. Air
Pac. and N.AS.,, Pearl Harbor. On discharge from the Navy and upon
compledon of my graduate work at the Law and Business Schools, I re-
turned to my home city of Lowell to enter into the general practice of
law. Lam pleased to report that | have found this work interesting, chal-
lenging and rewarding.

In spite of the old Law School maxim that law is a jealous mistress, I
have found ti wine to serve numerous greater-Lowell business concerns in
the capacity of trustee, officer, or dircetor, to assist in various fund-
raising efforts and to participate in community undertakings 3 in industrial
development, urban renewal and central business district improvement.

My traveling consises chiefly of an annual vacation on Cape Cod and
an occasional winter trip to Florida or the Islands. Golting, gardening

 

¥
F.
:
p
k
™,

4h, slate

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 363

and walking keep me from joining the rocking-chair “fleet” during the
rest of the year.

My health has been reasonably good. I wouldn’t swap my wife or home
for any that I have heard of. Guess | wouldn’t swap my son “Rich”
either, come to think of it.

The pictures of “before” and “after” bring home quite clearly, even if
one feels little different within, what the twenty-five years have done
to each of us, Let’s hope the next twenty-five will be as kind.

DAVID FLOWER, JR.

Eee SRY Scar mmn  NEM SE,

f an

og

  
  
 

“St tem arch the

LS ROMERO DENA

 

HOME ADDRESS: 21 James St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Co., Lexington, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1942.

UN MARRIED,

OCCUPATION: Tax lawyer — executive; director of tax affairs, Raytheon Company;
member, Massachusetts and New York bars.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Excise and Miscellaneous Tax Committee, Section of
Taxation, American Bar Association, 1963-65; president, New England Chap-
ter, 1959-60, chairman, National Education Committee, 1962-64, national
vice-president, 1963-64, Tax Executives Institute, Inc.; chairman. Electrenic
Industries Association Tax Committee, 1961-62, 1963-64; member, Ad-
visory Council, Tax Institute of America, 1961-63; member, Advisory Board,
Northwestern University Institute of Taxation. since 1962; member, Advisory
Board, The Tax Executive publication, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Section of Taxation, American Bar Association; Tax Executives
Institute, Inc.; U.S. Chamber of Commerce Taxation Committee: Electronic
Industries Association Tax Committee; National Association of Manufac-
turers Taxation Committee; Tax Institute of America; Massachusetts Bar
Association; Associated Industries of Massachusetts Taxation Committee;
New England Council Subcommittee on Taxation.

PUBLICATIONS: Chapter on taxation, Annual Surrey of Massachusetts Law.
1956-60; associate federal tax editor, The Tax Coordinator, Research Institute
of America, Inc., 1945-46; co-editor, “Foreign Aspects of Taxation” depart
ment, The Journal of Taxation.

During the first four years after law school I worked on a number of
training jobs: law clerk to the Chief Justice and senior law clerk to the
justices of the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts; law clerk to a
Justice of the United States Court of Appeals for the First Circuit; statt
attorney at the Tax Court of the United States; and an associate federal

364 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

tax editor for the Research Institute of America, Inc. I am deeply in-
debted to Harvard Law School and to Professor John MacArthur
Maguire for these opportunities.

I then joined Raytheon Company in 1946 as an attorney and later be-
came tax attorney, general tax counsel and now director of tax affairs,

For eight of the early years at Raytheon | caught graduate and under-
graduate courses in federal income, estate and gift taxation at North-
eastern University Law School. In more recent years this activity has
been limited to occasional talks on tax subjects at various tax forums
and at such organizations as bar associations, accounting societies, the
Practising Law Institute and the American Alanagment Association.

Responsibility for the entire tax function of a major corporation is as
stimulating as it is challenging and as intellectually satisfying as it is
rewarding. Forgive me if I put a plug in here for creating a climate for
effective corporate tax management. The function of planning the
company’s transactions in a manner that will minimize their tax cost and
the function of complying with tax laws through preparation of tax
returns and the handling of audits are best and most advantageously
handled for the corporation when unified in a single department whose
head bears the responsibiliry not only for developing the plans but also
for carrving them through to ultimate success. In this way there is not a
split of responsibilicy as where tax lawyers in a corporate law department
do the planning and then turn the ball over to tax accountants in another
department for handling the tax reporting and compliance aspects.

The public service and company service aspects of my work dovetail
in the preparation and support of legislation, often in cooperation with
the Treasury Department and State Tax Commissions. The same may be —
said for work in improving the administration of tax laws in coopera-
tion with the Internal Revenue Service and state tax administrators.

My obvious career interests may be seen in the undertaking to super-
vise and prepare a monograph on careers for tax executives for publica-
tion by the Tax Executives Institute, Inc.

1 am more readily recognizable today by classmates who haven’t seen
me for twenty-five years than I would have been a year ago when I was
forty pounds heavier.

Although If do not get out as often as I would like, one of my favorite
pastimes is sailing on Buzzards Bay in a small boat.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 365

JOHN FLOWER +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 5111 Burt St., Omaha, Nebr.

FRANCIS FREDERICK FOLEY

 

HOME apprRESS: 2 Blanche St., Dorchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Merritt J. Aldrich, 378 Stuart St., Boston, Mags.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1954.
UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Defense counsel, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: Dorchester Yacht Club; Hatherly Country Club.

It is rather startling to realize that I am writing for the Twenty-fifth
Anniversary Report of my class at Harvard. As I am asked to write a
report on my activities and progress since then, I realize how little real
progress I have made, outside of growing older and of obtaining what
merely comes from living longer. I am still unmarried and [I still live
in the same house with my father where I have lived since I was a bov.

I served almost five years in World War II and a vear and a half in
the Korean Conflict. Between these periods of military service 1 worked
and went half way through law school untl 1 was recalled to active
duty for the Korean Conflict. In- 1947 T also play ed Class Bo minor
league baseball, My decision to put myself back in school after being

366 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

out for ten years was really the result of a decision half-formed while
] was in the service in World War Il, I actually was reading books on
the philosophy of law at that time, but I was side-tracked while trying
to make an adequate adjustment to civilian life when I was released
in 1946. When I was released from the service following the Korean
Conflict, I finished law school in June, 1954, and passed the bar exami-
nation the same month, Then, for the first time since graduation, my
life leveled out and has been running a steady course in my work as a
full-time trial attorney.

I find that I am happy in my selection of law as my profession. |
think it is a wonderful field. Sometimes I am unhappy or perhaps frus-
trated in my endeavors to find the truth. I, as defense counsel, am not
always sure that what I hear is the truth, especially where the testimony
is all within the control of the witness and cannot be verified by other
evidence and where the witness has so much to gain by his testimony.

My hobbies are mainly athletic in nature; namely, boating, golf,
bicycle nding, tennis, baseball, swimming and hiking. I do very little
reading outside of work, mainly because my work demands that I do
so much of it. For the past few years I have been attending the football
games at the Stadium, and I must say that the team makes a very
creditable showing. Occasionally, I go down to the field house and take
exercise by running around either the indoor or outdoor track.

I take this opportunity to say hello to all the friends I knew at school.

CALEB FOOTE

“ecab sud oupituSa'o a2 tle ‘Pith dicot ares hand wcll

    

HOME ADDRESS: 232 Benjamin West Ave., Swarthmore, Pa.

OFFICE apbress; University of Pennsylvania Law School, Philadelphia 4, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YLARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B, 1939; a.m. (Columbia Univ.), 1941;
iva. (Univ. of Pennsylvania), 1953.

mannino: Hope Stephens, Nov. 17, 1942. cuitoxen: Robert, May 29, 1945;
Heather, March 9, 1947; Andrew Eliot, Dec. 10, 1949; Ethan and David
(twins), April 9, 1958.

occepaTiON: Professor of law, University of Pennsylvania; teaching and research
in criminal law and family law.

orrices HELD: Associate professor of law, University of Nebraska, 1954-56;
W alter KE. Meyer Visiting Research Professor of Law, Harvard Law School,
1900-61.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 367

MEMBER oF: Board of directors, Philadelphia Chapter, American Civil Liberties
nion.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in legal periodicals.

In earlier Class Reports, I have noted the graduate work in economics
which | did at Columbia, my work during the war years as a West Coast
secretary of the Fellowship of Reconciliation, a religious pacifist organi-
zation, and my marriage im 1942 to Hope Stephens. Of our children,
Robert is now a freshman at Grinnell College, Heather is a junior in high
school, and Andrew is in junior high, while our bonus, twins Ethan and
David, are in kindergarten at a school where my wife also teaches.

It was not until fourteen years after leaving Harvard that I was finally
launched in the profession of law teaching which has become my career.
The round-about route by which I reached this end began with the two
prison terms I served during the war because as a conscientious objector
I refused to obey the orders of Selective Service. That phase ended
when I was released on parole in 1946 and a year later received a pardon
from President Truman. This was followed by a few years of rather
aimless experimentation up blind alleys. I considered going into farming,
but six months of milking cows on an isolated ranch in the northern
California coast range cured that aberration. An interest in landscape

gardening led to a year with a gardening partnership in San Francisco;
the city was wonderful, but the work became boring. Moving east, I
worked for a couple of years in a legal aid and advice bureau for con-
scientious objectors in Philadelphia. While my ethical and religious views
about participation in war had not (and have not) changed, I became
convinced that I did not want to devote my life to professional pacifist
work, and in the summer of 1950 1 took the drastic step of going back
to school again in an entirely new field. So in September I found myself
in the classroom once more at the University of Pennsylvania Law
School.

This delayed decision to become a lawyer implemented an interest
that was first kindled while I was in prison. Determined to turn the im-
prisonment to which | was subjected to creative ends, | used my time
to learn all I could about my fellow inmates, the prison staff and the
interaction between inmates and staff. Having done time in a variety of
institutions — the San Francisco County Jail, a “progressive” federal
prison farm and an old line United States penitentiary —I obtained a
pretty good inside view of the futility of current correction practice and
of how little real difference there was between a “bad jail” in the old
tradition and the “new criminology” which some sociologists extol. I
thought then that society had hardly learned the first thing about the
problem of how to deal with criminals. As I observed the life around me,
it seemed that the administration of criminal law followed no coherent
policy, tolerated a tremendous amount of unnecessary cruelty which im-
peded rehabilitation and was a denial of the goal of equal justice because
of the economic discrimination against lower classes which pervaded
every level of police, court and prison policy from arrest to pardon, My
last ten years of professional work have verified the essential truth of these
earlier from-the-inside observations, but I am a lot more perplexed about
solutions than I used to be The problems are immense and the scientific

368 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

and analytical work required to deal with them, to which I hope I am
making some contribution, has barely begun.

OLIVER SWIFT FOOTE

      

eT ee

+ A INE VSI ERE DBE
% ‘i

HOME apbRESS: Bob Hill Road, Ridgefield, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stat-Type Co., 299 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREE: a.B., 1939.

marriep: Gertrude Louise Berger, July 3, 1942. cHitpreN: Elizabeth Louise,
Sept. 19, 1950; Oliver Willard, Oct. 3, 1953; Arthur Thomas, Feb. 5, 1961,

occupation: Self-employed; proprietor of small public typing service.

CLARENCE EUGENE FORBES

} | | ~ :
. . 4 *
e %
a ty

  

Home apoarss: 19501 Milan Drive, Maple Heights 37, Ohio.

OFricr, ADUmESS: NASA Lewis Research Center, 2100 Brook Park Rd., Cleveland,
dhin.

Preparcp at: Lynn Englieh High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1945-1939. pecner: a.p., cum laude, 1939.

magaino: Irene Delanoy, June 18, 1943. cottonen: Douglas, March II, 1946;
Bonnie, April 11, 1949; Mary, May 31, 1953,

occeration: Apssistant chief. Personnel Division, NASA Lewis Research Center
(space propulsion research and develapment), Cleveland, Ohin.

ovsicys He0: Member, board of managers, Southeast YMCA,

memera or: Maple Heights Rotary Club; Southeast YMCA; Midwest College
Placement Officers; Christ Church, Shaker Heights,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 369

Upon leaving Harvard, to the dismay of my roommate who planned
to make a “mint” and retire early, and to the pleasure of my father who
had spent his life in the “dog-eat-dog” textile business, I decided to work
for a non-profit, philanthropic organization, the South End House in
Boston. I spent two and a half years residing in a slum area working
with juvenile gangs and with neighborhood organizations attempting to
improve neighborhood conditions. I worked under the guiding light
of Dick Winslow who later became permanent secretary of the United
States delegation to the United Nations.

With the United States involvement in World War II imminent, I
became executive director of the Civilian Defense Volunteer Office in
Portland, Maine, where I served until entering the Service. My Navy
service consisted of one year of schooling and training followed by two
years of destroyer duty in the Atlantic. I served as communications
officer, first on the Jobn D. Ford, a World War I tin can, then on the
new 2250-ton USS Vogelgesang.

While at Columbia University attending Midshipman School, I met
my future wife. She was serving as a head nurse at the neighboring St.
Luke’s Hospital. Our paths crossed at a dance sponsored by St. Luke’s
for the midshipmen. We were married in Miami, Florida, six months
later at the Trinity Episcopal Church.

Upon returning from the Service 1 pursued my college interest in
political science by working for a year at the Civic Bureau of the Boston
Chamber of Commerce. This seemed to be leading to a dead end, so I
chose to enter the field of educational personnel work which led me to
my ultimate career choice, that of personnel administration. After about
eight years of college placement and guidance work at Northeastern
University and Boston University, I left university work to join Jack
& Heintz, Inc., in Cleveland, Ohio, as manager of technical employment
and training. While somewhat regretful to leave New England, particu-
larly the quaint town of Marblehead, we found Cleveland to be a modern
and enlightened city with beautiful neighborhoods and thriving industry.
1 enjoyed seven years of industrial personnel experience with a company
which has an unusually progressive history in the field of human relations.

My children, now numbering three — Douglas, seventeen; Bonnie
Claire, fourteen; and Mary, ten—have found the public schools here
to have very high standards. Doug graduated this year and has just
entered Pennsylvania State University. Bonnie, who has become a very
good pianist and a budding linguist, is thinking of returning east to
college, perhaps Wellesley or Middlebury. Irene has devoted herself
not only to her family but to Camp Fire Girl activities serving on the
Cleveland Council. With Douglas off to school, she is now threatening
to return to her nursing profession.

Meantime, I have chosen to become affiliated with the nation’s space
effort here in Cleveland by joining NASA’s Lewis Research Center as
assistant director of personnel. I find it a challenge to help mobilize
and utilize the engineering and scientific talent required to develop the
propulsion systems for our travel into outer space. My recreation used
to consist chiefly of sailing and swimming but Lake Erie isn't quite hke
the Atlantic. More recently we have taken advantage of our midwestern
location to tour the United States and record our trips in color photog-

370 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

raphy. My son has revived my interest in golf and I may wind uv;
being a “duffer.”

GORDON DONALD FORBES +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: Plympton Road, Sudbury, Mass.

* ROBERT BENNET FORBES

 

Bors: March 22. 1916, Boston, Mass, parents: Allan Forbes, ‘97, Josephine Crosby.
PREPARLD AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

TEARS IN CoLtie: 1935-1939. prcken: a.n., 1939.

MARKED: Elizabeth MeKean. coonen: Elizabeth MeKean; Phyllis.
vino: July 8. 1945, New York, N.Y.

After college Forbes spent a short time in the mercantile field. In
1942 he enlisted in the US. Navy, reccived a commission as ensign and
Was assigned to a mine sweeper in the North Atlantic waters. He was
based in Greenland for sixteen months. Upon his return in December,
1943, he was transferred to the US. Training Center in Miami, Florida.
In April, tu44. he way assigned tea P.G.M. boar as exceutive officer and
heutenant (}-8.). and supervised construction of the vessel in New York.
He died in the line of duty, le was survived by tis wife and children.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 371

LOTH ROP MARTIN FORBUSH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 270 Suffield, Birmingham, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Motors Technical Center, Engineering Staff, Vehicle
Development Group, Warren, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: 3s.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Carolyn Louise Pym, 1946. cHILDREN: Catherine Pym, 1947; Susan Dill,
1949; Janet Helen, 1951; Gail Heys, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Engineer in charge, Vehicle Development Group, Engineering Staff,
General Motors Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Society of Automotive Engineers; American Society for Metals;
American Ordnance Association; Association of the U.S. Army; M.LT. Club
of Detroit; St. George Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Forest Lake Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Inventor; co-inventor — nine patents, automotive and related.

After graduation 1 worked for United Shoe Machinery Corporation
for three years. They sent me, part-time, to MIT, havi ing correctly
diagnosed my education as being deficient, Their O.S.R.D. work on
weapons, although draft proof, was not so appealing as a uniform. I
enlisted as a cadet and was commissioned as an ensign in the USCG
early in 1943. Toured the Pacific on an LST, with landing operations
at Iwo Jima and Okinawa. A late °45 visit to Hiroshima ruins contirmed
my decision to be “over the hill” on the next unpleasantness. Graduated
from lieutenant (j.g.) to civilian in 1946. Promptly married, went to
work for General Motors and moved to Detroit suburbia. Have remained
with the same wife, employer and geography since.

I have a very understanding wife; she even understands our four
daughters. It helps to have one parent so equipped. The family skis
together but does everything else in a disorganized way, including golf,
swimming, sailing, schooling, camps, vacations and travel.

I am gainfully employed. I gain slowly in experience, humility and
financially, but I’m gaining. 1 think my employer and our customers
gain too, We're still in business!’ My present assignment for GML.
engineer in charge of Vehicle Development Group in Central Ottice
Engineering Statf. We develop new components and. vehicles, both
domestic and foreign. Managing our work is intensely interesting and
challenging. The assignment is really most simple. All we necd to do
is anticipate what the car of three or four years from now should be;
design, engincer, test and develop it yesterday so We can convince our

372 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

management today to schedule it tomorrow so you can buy it next
vear! Of course, we must do this better, faster and for less money
than others, Fortunately, we have an Organization. And I am a happy
Organization Man. Give me a chance to do it all over again, and if [
were really lucky, I'd wind up right here with the same family, in the
same place, doing the same things with the same associates — expressing
dissatisfaction all the time, but enjoying every minute of it!

THOMAS HENRY FORD

&

    

HOME AND OFFICE appness: 11 Harnden Rd., Pinehurst, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical High School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLece: 1935-1936, 1938-1939. pecree: s.B. (Massachusetts Inst. of
Technology), 1956.

Marrifp: Mary Elizabeth Sullivan, Aug. 22, 1953. cHitpreN: Ellen M., March 3,
1955; Katherine M., Aug. 16, 1956; Elizabeth A., Oct. 22, 1957; Mary I.,
May 3, 1960,

OCCUPATION: Independent contractor.

A casualty of the Depression, I did not graduate from Harvard. After
serving four years in the Navy in World War II, I became an inde-
pendent contractor and along the way graduated from M.LT. in
electrical engineering (with stops at Boston University and Northeastern
University). 1 am now mostly concerned about aging parents and trying
to bring up four little girls in the sophistication that the times demand.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 373

WILLIAM DUDLEY FORD

goa LE OE

   

      
 

Ey Ey Sy pte TRE IR, RE

HOME ADDRESS: 30 Sutton PI, New York 22, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1290 Ave. of the Americas, New York, N.Y. |

PREPARED AT: Tabor Academy, Marion, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; LL.B. CUniy. of Virginia), 1948,

MARRIED: Helen Pidgeon Robinson, May 29, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Fairbanks-Whitney Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Equity Corporation, and officer and director of
various of its subsidiaries, May, 1961, to August, 1963.

MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club, New York City; Harvard Club of New York;
Edgartown Yacht Club, Edgartown, Mass.

pusBLicaTions: “The Constitutionality of Anti-Lynching Legislation,” University of
Virginia Law Review, 1948; “Modern Corporate Statutes,” Duke University
Law Review, 1958.

After graduation I worked for a rayon corporation until I joined the
Air Force in November, 1940. Became a pilot and flew combat in the
South Pacific until mid-1943. Was on Third Air Force staff until
1945. Separated as lieutenant colonel. Was awarded Legion of Merit.
Went to University of Virginia Law School; graduated in 1948; was on
the Law Review, Order of the Coiff and member of the Raven Society.

Was with Cadwalader, Wickersham & Taft in New York until 1951. - -
Then joined Cravath, Swaine & Moore and was with them until May,
1961, specializing in corporate and financial field. Joined the Equity
Corporation, a registered closed-end management investment company
in 1961, as vice-president; also held offices and directorships in subsidiary
companies,

In August, 1963, became vice-president and general counsel of Fair-
banks-Whitney Corporation, a holding company combining the industrial
operations of Fairbanks, Morse & Company (scales, pumps and motors),
Pratt & Whitney Machinery Company (machine tools), Colt’s Patent
Firearms Manufacturing Company (guns) and Chandler Fvans Corpora-
tion (precision controls for aircraft engines and missiles). My latest
position is most interesting (as all of them have been). Those who
know the recent history of Fairbanks-Whitney can well appreciate the
interest which it holds for its general counsel.

I live in Manhattan and spend summers in Saluda in the North Carolina
Mountains where we own a summer home,

—_ aennenst

374 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

* BRUCE FOSTER

 

BORN: July 26. 1916, Boston, Mass. parents: Frederick Foster, Clara Bruce.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. prEcREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Loring Sweetser, June, 1942.

piep: Killed in action, April 10, 1943, in North African area.

After graduation Foster was associated with the Bankers Trust Com-
pany in New York until he entered the service in September, 1941. He
was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Army and went to Eng-
land and later to North Africa. He was killed in action in Tunisia while
serving with a tank force. He was survived by his wife.

STEPHEN WILLIAM FOTIS

c meng
j
;
!

   

HOME ADDRESS: 252 Senisa Drive, San Antonio, Texas 78228.

OFFICE appKEss: Aerospace Medical Division, 6570th Personnel Research Lab.,
Lackland Air Force Base, Texan,

PREPARED AT: Enylixh High School, Lynn, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1945-1937, 1939-1941, pecrrEs: §.8.. 1939141); gpm. (Tufts
Cali), 1942,

wannino: Clara Virginia Miller, March 17, 1945,

OcceraTion: Federal Government. psychologist. assistant division chicf.

mbna OF: Harvard Club of Washington, DCL: St John's Lodge, A.F. & AM.

Boston: American heonomic Association; American Statistical Associations
American Sociological Society,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 375

First, about the population explosion: I number myself among the

very few who have done anything positive (in a negative sort of way). I
mean 70 kidding.

Since the last Class roundup, I’ve managed to infiltrate test develop-
ment. Specializing in occupational qualification tests for upgrading
personnel, we cover a spectrum of jobs arrayed from accountant to
weatherman and stratified from apprentice up. In this psychologist-
staked territory, I’m a displaced economist. My interdisciplinary passage
took its wayward route via the haunts of stockbroker, statistician and
social scientist. The zigzag direction of this passage was the net outcome
of two critical turns: might as well call these (1) Zig and (2) Zag,
although neither seemed radically tangential at the time. Zig-turn coin-
cided with my year in China (1946-47). As an UNRRA observer, it
became my business to nose about some of the more devious byways of
the Chinese economy. In a non-business way, I took time to join the
Harvard Club of Shanghai. Zag-turn was synchronous with what was
then presumed to be a three-month assignment with the Air Force.
That was three months and thirteen years ago, and the end of this detour
is not yet in sight. Talent for getting closure is not my gift.

Once in Mexico City, I unwittingly drove onto a fast expressway and
couldn’t get off. With abandon, I raced bumper-to-bumper for miles
before I was able to make good my exit. All the while, I was blithely
innocent of where this was taking me. More amused than disturbed, I
wondered, “Can this be the story of my life?” Anyway I’ve long since
tossed the roadmaps out, the better to enjoy the scenery.

Not that the scenery is invariably attractive. Indeed the landscape
can become suddenly grotesque, the trees misshapen and malevolent.
Look, there’s a gentleman of the cloth urging his flock toward a fallout
shelter; all carry firearms. The cleric himself is equipped with a second
gun — for that extra margin. Listen as he preaches. His message is not
of salvation but of survival. And now what have we here? Why it’s
an astronaut studying a financial report: subject, “How to Get Rich
Quick on Government Time, or Why the Laurel Crown Got Obsolete.”

After viewing a whole panorama of such scenes, one is left wondering
anew: Just who is lost, and who isn’t? One becomes conscious of being
witness to mass waves of confusion, disorientation and hysteria. Sputnik
orbits. Big deal. So now comes the so-called “Soviet Educational
Challenge.” The question of whether or not the Soviets have ever
actually produced a truly educated individual goes heedlessly unex-
amined. Who has time to unscramble education from technical training?
Man, we got to make it to the moon and beyond. Why? Because the
Russians . . . Now, then, who’s master of his fate, captain of his soul?

And that orbiting capsule — isn’t it but a detail, a technicality? Would
it be unrealistic to suppose that what really matters is the man inside?

Poor vagrant. From his charts, he can get a precise fix on his position
relative to points of origin and destination in space and time. But does
he know where he is? Does he suspect where he came from, where he’s
going, and—above all—why? One wonders — with some uneasiness
because one recognizes that encapsulated gentleman as himself.

Then one’s thoughts turn to the meaning of reality, and one struggles

376 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

to reclaim words hear aeons ago in Emerson Hall— words voiced by
Demos, Sorokin, Lake .. .
And one wishes he had Listened better.

ALVAN BERNARD FOX

 

HOME appress: Garfield Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE aDpRESS: Rapids Furniture Co., 90 Canal St., Boston 14, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.; New Preparatory School,
Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: a.B., cum laude, 1939.

marrieD: Shirley Morse Cowen, Aug. 26, 1950. cHicpREN: Dana, June 26, 1951;
Nina, Oct. 16, 1953.

occupation: Wholesale furniture business; vice-president — buying, sale and
display.

oFFices HELD: Director, Rapids Furniture Company, Merrimac Trust, Rapids
Realty Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Bosten and Concord; National Wholesale Furniture
Association; De Cordova and Dana Museum; Audubon Society; American
Craftsmen’s Council; Cleveland Amory’s Hunt the Hunter’s Hunt Club.

According to fellow Alumnus Henry Thoreau, “Most men lead lives
of quiet desperation.” Though this may be so of others, I hope it does
not apply to the Class of 1939. As for myself, I’ve had my desperate
moments and my quiet ones, but I’ve never abandoned myself to com-
plete despair nor succeeded in keeping my mouth shut for too long.
When it comes to presenting my personal history for public consump-
tion, however, I do despair quietly over how little of consequence there
is to describe.

For those, nevertheless, who must know and be bored thereby, let
me relate that upon graduation I went to work for the now defunct
department store — R.H. White Company. The most memorable event
of my brief career at this establishment was being accused of being a
Bolshevik by the personnel manager when I threatened to join a labor
union to gain an increase in my staggering wage of $14.00 per week.
After this experience. I worked for the Monitor Furniture Company
of Jamestown, New York, as their representative in New England. Then

I discovered the unabridged advice of Horace Greeley, to wit: “If
your facher doesn't have a good business, go West, young man, go West!”

TESTA

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 377

I found my father did have a good business and I joined it, the Rapids
Furniture Company, in early 1941.

Shortly after that I became aware of more urgent business for Uncle
Sam. In August of 1941, 1 became an ensign in the U.S. Navy and in
September was on active duty at the Boston Navy Yard in Communica-
tions; in time to receive that now famous message from Pearl Harbor
on December 7th. In June of 1942, I was sent to Chicago for overseas
training, and by August I was on my way to join the USS Enterprise
with the Pacific Fleet. A 500-page volume, The Big E, now available
at all bookstores, makes it unnecessary for me to go into further detail
on what turned out to be the great adventure of my life. December,
1944, found me back in the States at the Naval Aur Station, Banana
River, Florida. This place must have inspired the song “Yes, We Have
No Bananas” because there was certainly no fruit there and very little
else. From here to the Naval Air Station at Coronado, California;
thence to Quonset Point, Rhode Island, and finally in December of
1945, aS a lieutenant commander, back to the peace and prosperity of
the furniture business,

In my present occupation, the most interesting work was helping to
pioneer the display and sale of truly modern furniture design in conserva-
tive Boston: no mean task in the late ’go’s and early ’so0’s, but one that
was met with considerable success. After twenty years I find the furni-
ture business still fascinating because of its ever-changing style. I’m at
times dismayed by the poor level of public taste but constantly amazed
at my industry’s ability to produce something for everybody.

At mid-century, 1950, I married Shirley Cowen. Our two children,
Dana and Nina, followed at two-year intervals rounding out the family
package. Since marriage, my early interest in golf has switched to more
prosaic and less organized things. Walking, bird-watching, canoeing
on the Sudbury River, and just sitting and thinking (meditation the
mystics call it). With the assistance of Shirley, I started combing the
antique markets for unusual objects to accessorize my company’s displays.
In conjunction with these things, we hung original oil paintings to lend
color to the showroom and to point up the fact that furniture is also
an art form. This awakened a dormant interest on our part in art and
antiques. Shirley’s immediately went from the passive to the active
stage, and it has been a source of fascination and pleasure to watch her
develop into a fine artist. The children, I’m pleased to note, give evidence
of sharing their mother’s talents, As for myself, after a brief fling ac
sculpturing I’ve returned to the role of spectator and small-time collector.

Animals are also one of our interests—-the whole family having a
passion for shaggy dogs. We now have two rather unusual ones — an
English Otterhound and a Lhasa Apsos, a small dog originating in Tibet.
A trip to Italy by the whole family in the summer of 1961 has whetted
our appetite for travel, We hope we can satisfy it on many more
similar occasions. "

It was Thoreau again who said, “I would rather sit alone on a toad-
stool than be crowded on a velvet cushion.” With this in mind, we were
fortunate to find a house quite secluded in the woods of Concord in
an area often frequented by the famous naturalist. The location and
quotation may sound unsociable, but a welcome is continually out to

378 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

anyone who can still enjoy conversation and the spectacle of Nature
unfolding outside our windows, Incidentally, the toadstools have turned
out to be mushrooms and I'm told they are delicious.

] started out with very little to sav and have said it in too many
words. A note from the Reunion Committce says the Report is overdue,
so before 1 get wound up on religion, politics and lost causes, I shall

conclude with greetings to my Classmates, all of whom I hope to see
at the Reunion.

BERNARD HYMAN FOX +

 
      

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 81 Mt. Vernon St., Malden 48, Mass.

SHERWOOD DEAN FOX

RIE GR IEE «MEE - = Setanta an
sat. ‘ost =
OT Do :

 

Home aponss: 2047 Central Phwy.. Schenectady 9, NUY.

OFFICE ADORNS: Dept. of Sociology, Union College, Schenectady 8, N.Y.

ratranso at: Public Latin School, Boston. Viase. .

YEARS ON COLLDLE: 1933-1999, oecHnEs: an. cum lande, 1939; am. (Univ. of Ilh-
noied, 194; aw. CHarverd Unive, 1957: eto. Cibid.), 1953,

waxsio: Marcia Seidenbond, Dee. 28. 1052. coronene: Jane, April 19 1947;
Jonathan Dean, May 27, D0; Deborah, March J, 1956.

occe ratio’: Professer of secieay, chairman, Department of Sociology, Union
Cadlege: teaching. administration, research,

OFTICEe HOLD: Commitlee chairmanships and memberships, Seciety for the Study

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 379

of Social Problems; chairman, Advisory Committee, Schenectady Human
Relations Commission, since 1963; formerly: vice-president, Community Wel-
fare Council, vice-chairman, Council for World Understanding, member,
executive committee, Committee for Equal Opportunity in Housing.

MEMBER OF: American Sociological Association (fellow); Society for the Study
of Social Problems; Eastern Sociological Society; Society for the Psycho-
logical Study of Social Issues; American Association of University Pro-
fessors.

PUBLICATIONS: Emile Durkheim, Education and Sociology (Glencoe, H.: The
Free Press, 1956): translated, and with an Introduction, by Sherwood D.
Fox. In preparation: a general text on sociology, publication date 1964 or
1965; article, “Teaching Sociology in the United States,” to be published
in Denmark, 1964.

It’s not only the snows of yesteryear, but also the twenty-five years
themselves that have slipped by so quickly! And once more, this Report
has the value of fostering reflection.

Within two years, the cycle begins again, as Jane enters college in
1965 —to be followed by Jon in 1967, and Deborah in 1973. These
three continue to surprise and amaze us as they grow — and as we grow
older more or less gracefully. Marcia’s return to teaching has been in-
termittent, fortunately, for she can devote more time to her own other
activities, as well as to the full-time task of taking care of the rest of us.
And so we contribute to validating the proposition that family life is the
mode of man, with its pleasures and pains, all part of the human experi-
ence. Contrary to American ideology, unalloyed joy is a myth: life is in-
teresting, in part, because of its vicissitudes and variabilities,

Much the same kind of thing can be said of one’s career, which has its
own patterns of change, moving up and down, or backwards and for-
wards. With respect to both teaching and research, our colleges and uni-
versities urgently require creative thinking and much energy and re-
sources in the coming years, But there are signs of promise and hopeful-
ness in my own field of special interest, the mutual relevance of sociology
and social policy and practice. While I am not entirely content (has
anyone enough time for research, writing and teaching? ), the net balance
remains favorable, as has been indicated in previous Reports. The oppor-
tunity to do some research and writing, and to watch the development
of an occasional youth into a thinking, perceptive person, brings great
rewards.

One of the special rewards of the academic career is the sabbatical year,
which took us to Europe for fourteen months in 1962-63. What we saw
in fifteen Western European countries, during this period, produced in
us not only varied sensations of interest and enjoyment, but also a lively
feeling for the particular values of our own way of life. Jane and Jon
were in school in Switzerland, learning French, skiing, and that Ameri-
can schools have some good qualities. Deborah was with us in Copen-
hagen, for the academic year, where we learned a minimum of Danish
and lived the good life: at a pace determined by ourselves, in pleasant
surroundings, and with congenial people. Freedom from academic trivia
— I had only one seminar at Copenhagen University, and no committee
assignments! — allowed me to continue my research, and to write. Those
were happy days indeed, especially by contrast with our having to meet
the heavy demands made upon us, back home, on the job, in the family,
and in the community. °

380 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

But this is our home, and we do respond to the forces at work in the
contemporary United States, Having been somewhat out of touch with
events, during our vear abroad, we were impressed by developments in
the field of civil rights, with special reference to the position and pros-
pects of American Negroes, This is an area of involvement that has
become even more meaningful to us.

These twenty-five years have witnessed the turn of cycles in career
and in family, and one can observe these changes in two ways: with the
full involvement of a participant, and with the detachment of an ob-
server. From either point of view, life is very much different now from
what it was at the start of this period, in all aspects: personal, domestic,
career, and society as a whole. The times continue to offer challenges of
many kinds, and, although some observers are pessimistic, there continue
to emerge men and women who respond to the challenges. Tempora
ntutantur, et nos mntantur in illis,

JOSEPH FRANK

i
i

  

i
:

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1224 Genesee St., Rochester 11, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Rochester, Rochester, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Francis W. Parker School, Chicago, Hl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecrers: A.B., cum laude, 1939; A.M., 1947; PHD,

ao.

marRinp: Margery Goodkind, Feb. 1, 1941. cuttornen: Thomas, Jan. 24, 1947;
Peter, July 21, 1949; Andrew, Sept. 23, 1955.

OCCUPATIOS: Professor of English, University of Rochester.

orrices HELD: Huntington Library Fellow, 1955-56; Guggenheim Fellow, 1958-59,
1961; Folger Shakespeare Library Fellow, 1961-62; president, Rochester
Chapter, American Association of University Professors, 1957-58; associate
editor, Seeenteenth Century News, since 1961,

miwneR OF: Modern Language Association,

repuications: The Levelers, 1955, The Beainnings of the English Newspaper, 1961,
Harvard University Press: Literature from the Bible, Little, Brown, 1963.

No matter how hard I squint at the passage of time, 1939 doesn’t seem
a quarter of a century ago, Maybe writing a bricf autobiography will
convince me that it was.

My first two years after graduation were, vocationally, a period of
trials and errors that praved to myself and others that [ wasn't cut out
to write advertising copy, function as a newspaperman, or make money

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 38 I

in business. I did succeed, though, in getting married to an exciting
girl who at that time was Chicago’s only female news photographer.

Then the War. Still feeling guilty about having avoided Spain, I
spent a year in North Africa with the American Field Service. Next
came a brief stint with the War Labor Board, followed by two and a half
years in the American Army, much of it as a corporal roaming around
India and Burma. But since nothing is more boring than being a soldier,
I had lots of time to chat with myself. It was during one of these casual
conversations that I decided to become a teacher. So in 1946 I came
back to Harvard. My two years there were competitive, stimulating,
hard working, and the few resemblances to life in a country club or
an ivy-covered womb were purely nostalgic. After picking up an A.M.
in English Literature, in 1948 I proceeded to the University of Rochester.

And here I’ve stayed. Academic life, if one is conscientious and not
unlucky, can be relatively painless, and success usually involves a mini-
mum of bared tooth and sharpened claw. Anyway, equipped with a
Harvard Ph.D. (1953), Pm now a full professor, I’ve published three
books (two of them via the Harvard Press), written a proper quota of
learned articles, and ridden on the fellowship Pullmans provided by
John Simon Guggenheim, Henry E. Huntington and Henry C. Folger.

Life in Rochester is busy and pleasant. I take a small part in local
Democratic politics, a slightly larger one in working against censorship
of all kinds. My wife and I, with or without children, manage to get
to Europe every two or three years, sometimes to do research in a
library, sometimes to bask in French cooking or Greek sunshine. Our
social life is varied, if generally hard-drinking, and I’m firmly ensconced
in a poker septet and golf quartet. Our three boys are normally con-
formist, though somewhat excessive in their apparent anti-intellectual-
ism. And somehow my waistline hasn’t expanded much.

These are the externals. Internally, too, life has been generally good
to me and my sociological unit. I’m still an optimist, with, I suppose,
that belief in man’s rationality and ability to progress which marks me
as an anachronistic nineteenth-century socialist. Even so, 1 have a hunch
that world peace, racial equality, and the end of poverty are attainable,
and that I can play a small part in helping to attain them. Then, too,
I find that teaching literature to college students does foster the life of
the mind, as well as gratifying one’s innate exhibitionism. It’s pleasant
to have a job in which reading a book is “work” and climbing a podium
produces many of the satisfactions that scaling a mountain does.

For much of what’s happened to me I’m grateful to Harvard; the
gay and sheltered springboard provided by undergraduate life, and the
format of vocational excellence set by graduate work. Yet perhaps the
main legacy of Harvard to me has been a sense of intellectual restless-
ness, I believe neither in God nor in historical determinism. I do
believe that this world, past, present and future is an exciting and
tumultuous arena where a good seat is worth a premium, But it's also

important and, for me, necessary sometimes to join the gladiators, even
if clad in bifocals and gray flannels.

ae
ae
ae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

BENJAMIN ELLIOT FRANKEL

 

HOWE appress: Windmill Read, Armonk, N.Y.

OFFICE appRESS: Mead Packaging. Division of Mead Corp., 200 Park Ave., New
York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Hillhouse High School, New Haven, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, DECREE: a.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Elizabeth G. McLaughlin, Oct. 1, 1954, cHILDREN: Edward E., March 2,
1956.

occuPATION: Sales manager, packaging.
OFFICES HELD: Director. Packagemaster, Ltd., Toronto, Ont., Canada.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Sales Executives Club, New York.

Two jobs of brief duration and little consequence filled the gap
between June, 1939, and induction into the Army in August, 1941. The
ensuing four and a half years were spent in the Infantry, with service
in Europe where I acquired a Purple Heart, Combat Infantry Badge
and was surely a key figure in the Allicd victory.

On returning to the U.S. in 1946, I joined my present firm in Atlanta
and have been in sales and sales management ever since. In 1953 I was
transferred to New York City where I am currently sales manager,
Fastern Region.

Married in 1954, and in 1959 wife, son and I left the city for a home
in Westchester County from whence I commute with the legions of
fellow suburbanites. My work entails considerable travel, mostly in
and about the northeastern states, Canada and the Caribbean area.

Capsulizing twenty-five years of trials, tribulations and what-have-you
into four paragraphs is a somewhat jolting experience. However, |
have enjoved health, family and moderate material success.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 383

MORTON GEORGE FREED

 

HOME aporess: 42 Clearwater Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Acme Northeast Type & Supply, 413 Second St., Everett 49, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Charlotte Cohen, Dec. 29, 1946. cHILDREN: Betsy Joan, Dec. 29, 1947;
Ellen Ruth, April 8, 1951; Marjorie Jean, March 16, 1955.

OCCUPATION: President, Acme Northeast Type & Supply, manufacturers of type
metals and distributors and jobbers of printing machinery and supplies;
specific job: mostly sales.

MEMBER OF: Boston Club of Printing Craftsmen; American Metal Society.

I left the Yard in 1939 wondering where and how to start life.

My father had a comfortable business in electrical contracting, so the
electrical supply business became my first step in learning enough to
merit an approach to my father’s business. But the war in Europe and
Selective Service intervened.

Because | was in the Officers Reserve Corps and was single, a year of
active duty was imminent, and I decided to “get it over with” so that
my business career would not be interrupted. By September, 1940, I
was a second lieutenant in the Field Artillery at Fort Bragg, North
Carolina. When my year was completed I was persuaded to stay another
year, but Pearl Harbor and its aftermath stretched my military service
to nearly five years of which thirty-eight months were spent overseas
in England, North Africa, France, Germany and a few other countries
of Western Europe.

Those were years of adventure, boredom, futiliry and hope. Every-
one knew he was reliving 1914-1918 and nobody believed it would be
the last struggle to save democracy.

I was discharged in 1945 as a lieutenant colonel in the Air Force and
returned to Boston to resume my career as a civilian im my father’s
business. My electrical career was terminated early in 1946 when I
became engaged and joined my future father-in-law in his business,
the manufacture of type metals.

In 1946 I married Charlotte Cohen and we begat three girls, Betsv,
Ellen and Marjorie at intervals of four years. These are also years of
adventure, as anyone who has ever raised a family is well aware.

At work, I work hard and except for a few vacations these last few

384 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

years in Mfexico, Puerto Rico and Florida I've kept my nose to the grind-
stone and succeeded in keeping reasonably out of debt. As in most small
businesses, one must learn many facets of conducting a business, In
mine I've been in sales, purchasing and production. Fortunately we
have grown though competition is sharp and technological changes
present constant challenges,

At home in suburbia I garden, shovel snow and sometimes just plain
sit in the shade and enjoy it. Golf once a week when time and weather
permit and an evening of bridge or poker are the routine pleasures.

One or two plays a season, an occasional art exhibit or concert round
out our social life along with P.T.A. and an occasional fund drive. My
wife is constantly occupied with P.T.A., children’s concerts, child
study groups, luncheons, chauffeuring the offspring to art lessons, music
lessons, dentists, oculists, etc., and when needed badly, I lend an assist.

Living in Massachusetts has not led me to hold politicians in very
high esteem although of late a ray of hope is shimmering through. I
am an independent and vote that way.

I sometimes wonder how we ever progress as a nation as a democracy,
but after seeing a good part of the Western Hemisphere I’m convinced
the average man here in this country is a lot better off economically —
than anywhere else. Militarily, I believe we have achieved not peace
but a balance of terror, and our only hope is to realize along with
all the other nations of the world that this terror must be lessened slowly
but surely if eventual peace is to be obtained. However, history is not
favorable to this view.

I have never been a deeply religious person and I’ve always believed
and still do that religions are based on faith, not on reason; that they
are needed in a psychological way more by some than others; and
that their great service is in giving us a moral code from which our
governments under law derive, My children are compelled to undergo
religious teaching. What they eventually accept will be their decision.

DAVID ASA FREEDMAN >

   

   

HOME ADDKESS: 630 Burdette St., New Orleans, La.
oFvick appaess: 3706 Prytania St., New Orleans, La.
rKEPARED AT: Peabody High School, Peabody, Masa,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 385

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; M.D. (Tufts
Coll.) , 1943.

marRRieD: Charlotte S. Levy, Feb. 9, 1947. cHILDREN: Theodore Levy, Dec. 28,
1947; Seth, April 27, 1949; Emily Rachael, Jan. 27, 1954; Michael, Nov. 19,
1956.

occuPpATION: Medicine; neurology and psychiatry.

OFFICES HELD: Associate professor of clinical neurology, Tulane University
School of Medicine; training analyst, New Orleans Psychoanalytic Institute;
president, New Orleans Psychoanalytic Society.

MEMBER OF: Association for Research in Nervous and Mental Diseases; American

Academy of Neurology: American Psychoanalytic Association; American
Psychiatric Association (fellow), ete.

PUBLICATIONS: About twenty papers in various aspects of neurology and psychiatry.

Following medical school and internship I spent some three years in
the Army, for the most part as a battalion surgeon. The next two and
a half years I divided between the Department of Neurology at Columbia
and the Neurologic Service at the Montefiore Hospital in New York.
This very stimulating and gratifying period was also marked by my
marriage and the birth of my first child.

In the spring of 1949 I came to New Orleans to participate in the
setting up of a new Department of Neurology and Psychiatry at Tulane.
After three very busy full-time years, I elected to go into private
practice and to study psychoanalysis. My professional life since has
been divided between Tulane where I am an associate clinical professor
of neurology, the New Orleans Psychoanalytic Institute where I am a
training and supervising analyst, and private practice. Over the years
I have been involved in various investigations relating to the Neurologi-
cal and Behavioral Sciences. Most recently my interests have been
directed toward the affects of congenital blindness on early stages of
personality development,

Three “southern” children have been added to the Massachusetts-born
son who accompanied us here. In the net the years in New Orleans
have been active and productive (quite aside from the three southern
children) and all signs point to my writing the next Class Report from
the same address,

HARRY A. FREIBERG, JR.

- a Ss satay aa a
3

          

HOME ADpRESs: 31 Stilt St., New Orleans 24, La.

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

386 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Inc., 917 Carondelet Bldg., New Ou
Tleans

OFFICE ApprEess: Employers’ Consultants,
12, La.
PREPARED aT: Taft Schoo

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937. _
marrieD: Marjorie Rothschild (divorced) ; Edna Alice Bottolfson, Ay 2
3d., Feb. 11, 1944; Jill, Dec. 7, 1946, 8. 23, 1957,

CHILDREN: Harry A., :
occuPATION: Owner and founder, Employers’ Consultants, Inc.; affliated wi
tual Benefit Life Insurance Company of New Jersey; broker pith Mu.

ot er

companies.
OFFICES HELD: Currently, vice-president and secretary, Freiberg Corporat;
cinnati, Ohio; vice-president. Trans-Air Corporation, New Orlean Tation, Cin.
director, National Bank of Commerce, Jefferson Parish, La, Mah. La.; past
ciation, Inc., Chicago, Fine Hardwoods Association, Chicago; m emhan. Assgo-
Government Advisory Boards during the Korean War; past division ch of four
East Bank of Greater New Orleans Community Chest; past vice-pre id airman,
member, executive committee, United Fund; past director, East Bank ent and
Chamber of Commerce. Council,
PUBLICATIONS: Various insurance publications.

1, Watertown, Conn.

After my second year at Harvard I went into the family maho
business here in New Orleans, learning the business from the ground ae,
During my twenty years in the company, when the company was sold
by my family, I had held every position up to general manager and
oresident of the company. My work in the lumber industry was fas
inating, taking me to Central America, our main source of supply and
9 Europe, one of our major markets, Due to the urgent need for
vahogany in boats and planes (propellers) during the war, our plant not
ily earned the Army-Navy E for performance, but I was privileged
serve on four Government Advisory Boards during that time 5
Needless to say, after spending my adult life in one industry ‘it was
ficult for me to find another field in which my energies and interests
uld find equal expression, when we sold the family business. How-
r, I discovered not only that we human beings are more versatile
a we think, but also that life really does begin at forty or, in m
, a great deal afterwards. I have found in my new endeavor the
‘action that comes with supplying a service that spells peace of mind
vital area of the life of everyone, counseling in business structure
the various methods of solving financial problems through the
Jered use of life insurance, As the South has been slower in its
tion to business, so has it been slower in tackling the problems
usiness presupposes, in the way of business structure that can be
ageous to the builder, and employer-employee relations, of benefit
1.
ausiness isn’t all. My weekends are packed with “soul-satisfying”
‘that takes the mind off numbers for awhile and brings me back
office on Monday with more vigor for the week ahead. | have
4ad an unusual interest in plants and planting, and I really look
to hours of continuous research and actual planting in my
ise and in the many flower beds that always require attention.
rare and unusual, and my wife enjoys the results in our home.
nhouse faces into our dining area, so at dinnertime we appreciate
he new innovations and discoveries that nature always provides.
ularly enjoy the water and air plants — the Bromilliades — and

s kinds of begonias. Too, I am a fish hobbyist, and the décor

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 387

of our home centers about four large plastic tanks of tropical fish, tanks
that are decorated with rocks and underwater plants. They constitute
our mobile paintings. ; ,

My wife, too, has hobbies, so we're both contented with our various
and ‘different activities, and can bring much of interest to each other.
She studies guitar, plays piano, works with various art groups, im a
spectator fashion, and most of all enjoys philosophy. She likes to say
she is the female Eric Hoffer, in that she loves to cook seriously and
philosophize for the love of it. She works with the local Symphony
and the Lyceum- Tulane Association and in the past was the coordinator
of the Great Books Program.

However, our greatest interest is our nineteen-year-old son, who
attends Stanford University, his second year. His interests tend toward
history and literature for the moment, and spectator sports and folk
music are his present diversions, to say nothing of girls, the No. 1
interest of any young man.

Having such a full and interesting life, my only problem seems to be
rime — time for that extra trip or that extra project so worthy of
attention and energy, but perhaps all this, too, can be included, with a
little more thoughtful organization. As my new business settles down

in the next year or two, I hope to get back to the civic work | have
so enjoyed in the past. | ;

CHARLES WINSLOW FRENCH, JR.

    

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 15 Peterson Rd., Natick, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: $.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Jean Brockmeyer, Sept. 3, 1955. cHipReN: Kenneth Brock, Jan. 9
1957; Steven Winslow, May 22, 1960. oo

OCCUPATION: Instrument engineer.

_ The first few years out of Harvard found me flitting about in a semi-
irresponsible but highly delightful existence, ostensibly aimed at narrow-
re own MY vast array of interests and talents into a reasonably unified
ative career, In reading over the 2oth Report, I note that some
of our lads admit to varying degrees of non-conformity, Well, try this
on for size, Since 1939 I have been engaged in the following at various

388 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

times: Operated a portrait and commercial photo business and founded
and operated Trans-Radio Productions in Boston for eight under-
financed and grinding years (it’s still going now that I sold out), played
in countless jazz combos (piano, bass) for pay, worked my way around
Europe as a sound and lighting technician with NBC Teleprograms,
learned to fly (not in the service) and chalked up nearly 800 solo hours
(much of it doing low altitude aerial photography), worked for a year
as engineer for a precision gyro instrument outfit followed by another
year with a fuel tank whistle-maker, winding up with a short stint in
a display company. All the whilst I rode with motorcycle clubs, designed
and built many types of rubber and gas powered model aircraft, built
and rode outboard hydroplanes, towed airplane advertising banners over
the beaches and ball parks in summer and rebuilt and played theatre

organs in the winter. I also combined vacation with vocation as a summer

hotel clerk-bookkeeper in Nantucket and developed a revolutionary

speaker system for the Hammond Organ in my spare time. Also dabbled

in summer theatre bit parts while I wasn’t taking pix of the cast. During

the Second World War, worked for the Navy Department as Security

Agent. The only direct follow-up of my Harvard training was in the

form of two short jobs with local construction companies as civil

engineer.

WHEW !!

Well, the narrowing down and unification was Jate in coming but
since 1955 I have been most successful in building up a small but reward-
ing business which enabled me to profit by many of my previous
meanderings and experiences. I specialize in the design, construction
and maintenance of precision instruments and highly unique gadgetry
for medical and scientific investigation. In the course of operating
many of my previous technical businesses, I had become a skilled instru-
ment machinist and had acquired over the years many fine machine tools.
Now with such clients as Massachusetts General Hospital, Harvard
Medical School, American Optical, etc., J manage to keep out of trouble
and read the pictures in Life at least once a week. I operate directly
from my home in Natick and maintain a summer place on a lake in
southern New Hampshire. Only hobbies now are water skiing, a radio-
controlled gas model plane and eating. .

I don’t spend an undue amount of time pondering the world mess,
which would only sap my much needed energy which is better devoted
to new ways to combat cancer, heart disease and weeping kidneys. I
have managed to keep a few old friends and find new ones and still have
much of my original sense of humor. More than this, one cannot
fairly ask.

Considering the difference in our ages and my inherent propensity
toward the multi-faceted life, Jean and I get along amazingly well. We
have managed to bring two fine boys to their fourth and seventh years.

I enjoy a devoted and responsive family and would do no differently if

1 had to do over again. Jean and I love travel and gourmet dining and

entertaining.

Life may begin at forty but it sure as hell goes over the hill awful
fast. See you all at the z5th!

meeps rng ME

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 389

FRANCIS LEE FRIEDMAN

a 3
a 4 .
Pa

 

BORN: Sept. 5, 1918, New York, N.Y. parents: Harry George Friedman, Adele
Oppenheimer.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; a.M., 1940; PH.D.
(Mass. Inst. of Technology), 1949.

MARRIED: Betty Anthony, Aug. 27, 1944, Shrewsbury, Vt. cHILpREN: Gweneth,
Jan. 13, 1946; Karen, March 11, 1947; Seth, July 27, 1949.
piep: Aug. 4, 1962, Boston, Mass.

Francis Lee Friedman was a professor of physics and director of the
Science Teaching Center at M.I-T., and designer of nuclear reactors that
led to the development of the atomic bomb. He served as a group leader
in theoretical physics at the Manhattan Project from 1942 to 1946. After
the war Friedman came to M.LT. as a research associate and subse-
quently joined the faculty in 1950. At M.I.T. he did research in nuclear
and theoretical physics and cosmic ray theory. In addition to serving as
a consultant to the Atomic Energy Commission, he participated in the
Lexington Project concerned with nuclear powered flight; Project Hart-
well, a study of undersea warfare, and the State Department’s Troy Proj-
ect. During 1955-56 he worked in the Niels Bohr Laboratory at the Insti-
tute for Theoretical Physics in Copenhagen. He was a major figure in
the M.I.T.-organized group of top national physicists that designed a new
high school physics course. He served as vice-chairman of the Commis-
sion on College Physics of the American Association of Physics Teachers
and was a member of the American Physical Society and a fellow of the
Academy of Arts and Sciences. Friedman was posthumously awarded a
medal by the U.S. Physicists for leadership in changing the teachings of
physics in American schools. He was survived by his children.

a

390 HARVARD CLASS OF I 939

ERNEST MICHAEL FULLER

~ a

   

| a
mM we a |

Le

HOME AppREss: 1 West Hills Rd., New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE AppREss: Ernest M. Fuller & Co., 120 Broadway, New York 5, NY,

PREPARED aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Dorothy Barrett, Feb. 16. 1952. CHILDREN: Faith Barrett, Aug. 12, 1953,
Elizabeth Dow, May 25, 1955; Samuel Alden and Susan Alden (twins)
Aug. 1, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Securities business; senior partner.

OFFICES HELD: Director, B. J. Van Ingen & Company, 1956-58, United Western
Minerals, 1957; treasurer, Society of Mayflower Descendants, 1948-49;
partner, Hill, Darlington & Company, 1955-58.

MEMBER OF: Society of Colonial Wars; Society of Mayflower Descendants; Devon
Yacht Club; Harvard Club of New Canaan.

Upon graduating from college I entered the securities business where
I have staved with the exception of the war years.

The past twelve vears have been for me especially hectic and produc-
tive. I was married, we moved to Connecticut and had four children in
three years. Then I started my firm and built a house. The latter was
no easier for me than it was for Mr. Blandings.

One principal source of enjoyment is seeing my three daughters and
son grow. Since all the children are under ten, the college worries are
some years ahead.

For winter vacations my wife and I have enjoyed trips to Bermuda and
Nassau. In the summer we usually go to Long Island where the children
like the ocean. For recreation I play tennis which is my only very active
sport. Up until three years ago I found ice hockey still much fun, but
after being sat down hard by a twenty-one-year-old, | promptly gave up
that sport. Now during the winter months I spend my time skating with
my family and playing paddle tennis.

I hope the next twenty-five years will be as rewarding as the last.

  

?

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 391

FREDERIC WILLIAM FULLER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 258 Washington Blvd., Springfield, Mass. 01108.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Holyoke Card & Paper Co., Box 450, Springfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: 5S.B., 1939,

maARRIED: Helen Smith, Sept. 28, 1940. CHILDREN: Frederic William, 3d, June 16,
1942; David M., Sept. 11, 1944; Winslow H., May 4, 1948.

HARVARD SON: David M. Fuller, ’66.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, sales, paper converting company.

OFFICES HELD: Deacon, since 1960, Faith Congregational Church; member, two
terms, 1948-52, Springfield City Council; clerk, 1948-52, trustee, since 1952,
Springfield Hospital; trustee, since 1953, president, since 1959, Springfield
Library & Museums Association; trustee, since 1959, Springfield Cemetery
Association; director, since 1959, Mutual Fire Assurance Company of
Springfield.

MEMBER OF: Colony Club; Longmeadow Country Club; Madison (Conn.) Beach
Club; Springfield Sales Executives Club; Harvard Club of Springfield.

Your autobiographical sketch becomes a most sobering thing when
you actually are confronted by it. Accomplishments look small for what
has seemed a busy and interesting life with increasingly less time to do all
you'd like or have planned to do.

Married most happily in 1940 and ever since, I have three bovs, one
of whom surprised both me and Harvard and is of the Class of 1966. My
eldest graduates from Middlebury College this year and is destined for
the Navy, while my youngest is an astronomer and way over mv head.
We have traveled as a family to the four points of the compass including
Europe and find that tennis racquets and a love of the game open doors
wherever you are.

The war years produced the oldest living second lieutenant in the Air
Force who instructed before touring some violent Pacific isles as a B-25
pilot, a son (Harvard ’66) born in Mississippi — a proud southerner, and
some lasting friendships and experiences which in reflection have been
the most significant in my life.

Since the war I have been with a small paper converting plant where
one’s good and bad decisions are quickly apparent—an interesting and
time-consuming business which has vied with community interests in-
cluding an excursion into politics and elective office. ,

My social, political or religious convictions are simply, the more vou

392 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

put into something, the more you take out — be a participant rather than
a spectator. The problem is ume and selectivity.

HAROLD FARQUHAR FURBER, JR.

nog cartnteememnemene ce spon ween vty “oy
i

  

      

HOME appress: Irish Green Street, Limavady, Northern Ireland (temporary) .
OFFICE ADDRESS: duPont Co., Wilmington, Del.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pecrEEs: s.B., 1939; s.m. (Cornell Univ.), 1941.

marrige: Kathryn Lubs, June 16, 1945. cumpren: Louise L., Jan. 25, 1948; Susan
D., March 17, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Supervisor, chemical manufacture, duPont Company.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Institute of Chemical En-
gineers.

Following graduation 1 attended Cornell University, receiving a
Master’s degree in chemistry in 1941. Went to work with the duPont
Company in Wilmington and have been with them in that area until
my present overseas assignment early this year. I have never regretted
my association with duPont, although the work, while rewarding, is
frequently frustrating and difficult.

Family consists of my wife, Kathryn, and two nearly-grown daughters,
Louise and Susan, all with me here in Ireland.

My principal hobby, in addition to sailing and gardening, has been
cabinet-making under the guidance of a true craftsman in nearby Penn-
sylvania. Over the years | have managed to make most of the furniture
for our house. As for sailing, my boat is in mothballs awaiting our
return. This past summer was the first 1 had missed on Cape Cod. (In
Northern Ireland, summer this year was on a Wednesday.)

One great current regret is that 1 will be unable to attend the 25th
Reunion. Regards to everyone and I'll be looking forward to the next.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 393

DAVID DICKSON FURMAN

 

HOME ADpRESS: Deer Haven Road, Bedminster, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Middlesex County Courthouse, New Brunswick, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; Lu.B. (New York Univ.), 1950.

MARRIED: Alice McDowell, March 5, 1942. CHILDREN: James Brinton, Jan. 11, 1940
(adopted) ; Jonathan Nichols, March 26, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Superior Court Judge.

Judge of the Superior Court of New Jersey for a seven-year term
starting April 4, 1962. State Attorney General, 1958-62, and Deputy
Attorney General, 1954-58. Represented New Jersey in the argument
of appeals before the U.S. Supreme Court and in more than forty cases
before the State Supreme Court. During term of office, established
consumer fraud and securities law enforcement bureaus and widened
the criminal investigation and traffic safety activities of the Attorney
General’s Department. President of the National Association of Attor-
neys during 1961-62.

Prior to public career, was in general practice of law with the firm
of Stryker, Tams & Horner in Newark. Instructor in New Jersey prac-
tice at New York University and Rutgers Schools of Law. Graduated
from New York University School of Law in 1950 and served as editor-
in-chief of the Law Review. During World War II, worked in the
steel industry in western Pennsylvania, as an electric furnace helper,
foreman and metallurgist. Had a draft deferment and was later rejected
for military service.

304 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

GERARD GOODWIN GALASSI

      

HOME ADDRESS: Winnetuxet Woods, Plympton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 4S, Russell St., Plymouth, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Salisbury School, Salisbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1942.

marRIED: Dorothea Johnston White, Oct. 11, 1945. cHILDREN: Jonathan White
Nov. 4, 1949; Peter Johnston, April 18, 1951; Meredith Barker, Jan. 13, 1956,

occupation: Lawyer — general practice; self-employed.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Plympton Planning Board, 1955-60, Plymouth (Mass.)
area, Program for Harvard College, 1957-58, Schools and Scholarship Commit-
tee, Old Colony Harvard Club, since 1961; delegate, Massachusetts Republi-
can State Convention, 1960; director, Jordan Hospital, Plymouth, Mass., since
1961; corporator, Plymouth Five Cents Savings Bank, since 1957; member,
National Panel of Arbitrators, American Arbitration Association, since 1962;
captain, Military Intelligence, U.S. Army Reserve, resigned 1953.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club; Pilgrim Society.

Condensation of one’s career, family history and general philosophy
of life since June, 1939, into one printed page or so presupposes a skill
in creative composition which I do not claim to possess despite two
Harvard degrees.

Chronologically, my graduation from college was followed by three
years at Harvard Law School; four years in the Army in World War
II (private to first heutenant),; and then some seven years of civilian
federal government service: two with the War Department (Military
Intelligence), and five and one-half as a trial attorney with the Antitrust
Division, U.S. Department of Justice, in such scattered places as
Washington, D.C.; Seattle; Portland, Oregon; Anchorage, Alaska; and
Boston. Since 1954 1 have been in private practice in Massachusetts:
three years in Boston, six years in partnership with a lawyer now a
judge of the Superior Court; and, finally, in 1963, on my own. With
a growing probate, estate planning and real estate practice, I find the
variety and independence of small town general practice both challeng-
ing and satisfying except for its excessive demands upon my time and
the sacrifices these entail so far as family, private life and sleep are
concerned.

Twenty-five years after, I think I may claim some degree of personal
achievement if not success, measured by public acclaim or a seven-digit
fortune, although the meaning of the term is elusive because it is

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 395

relative. Wirthal my love for the law as a profession, my greatest pride
and joy is my family: a wonderful and versatile wife (WW ellesley °39),
Two hopefully Harvard-bound sons both as fiercely loyal as the old
man — Jon at fourteen in his first year at Exeter, and Pete at twelve
already dvi ing to play football in a Crimson j jersey; and, finally, Merrie,
a princess in pigtails, whose smile reflects her name. We are a close
and happy community and enjoy being and doing things together.

Pet peeves: the hypocrisy of politics, special privilege, our moneyed
oligarchy sustained by an unthinking or uneducated electorate; the cult
of the common man, compulsory Social Security and/or Medicare,
widespread individual lack of respect for and understanding of both
the rele and rule of law; and, the growing tvranny of numbers (zip
code, all-numerical telephone, etc.) to which we are all subject — even
the Harvard Alumni Office has tagged us all with one!

I rejoice in the opportunity to live in this land and in this day, but
deplore the apparent complacency with which many seem to face or
ignore the complex problems of a rapidly changing world. Idealistically
perhaps, I am deeply concerned for the sake of our children, for the
future beyond our ume, and so remain unconvinced that the exigencies
of the moment invariably require unremitting surrender to expediency.
This seems to be the century of continuing crisis, but, in my opinion,
there is an urgent need for long-range planning, including a top-to-
bottom overhaul of our system of public education at the primary and
secondary school level. I see in the gradual erosion of moral principles,
the ever-widening appeal to and acceptance of the mediocre, and the
steady, pythonic tghtening of governmental authority at all levels, with
a concomitant decline in personal initiative and self-reliance, disturbin
symptoms of serious social decay. This condition, also reflected in
such things as continuing intolerance and discrimination, general resig-
nation to if not acceptance of deficit financing as an acceptable method
of managing our public affairs, and the extent to which lip service to
the time-honored precepts of our representative, republican system seems
to be substituted for responsible dedication, troubles me more than the

menace of an atomic war or the long-term implications of the coming
population explosions,

RICHARD WILLIAM GALBRAITH, Jk.

396 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Howe abpress: 77 Border Rock Rd., Levittown, Pa.

OFFICE appress: Insurance Co, of North America, 1600 Arch St., Philadelphia, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREE: a.B., cum lande, 1939,

marrieD: Ethelvn Nason, Jan. 3, 1943, cHitp: Richard Leslie, April 9, 1947,
OCCUPATION: Assistant superintendent, surety bond underwriting.

After graduation | was emploved by the Insurance Company of North
America as an underwriter-trainee in the company’s New York bond
department.

My career was interrupted in 1941 when I was inducted into the
US. Army. During the next four and one-half years I served with the
Artillery in various capacities. Ultimately I was assigned to the 85th
Infantry Division, where I remained until the war in Europe was over,
The 85th Division arrived in Italy just in time to participate in the
drive up the peninsula. The only ‘other country I visited was Switzer-
land, where 1 took one of the guided tours after hostilities had ceased.

In the meanwhile, I had gotten married before going overseas, and
also had won a commission in the Artillery branch. Before being released
from active service I signed up for the Reserves, an act which was to put
me in Korea six years later.

After World War II, I returned to my former employer, but this
time it was at their Philadelphia headquarters. With the exception of
the Korean episode, I have remained with the Insurance Company of
North America. We have lived in four different towns since 1946. At
present, we have a nice home in Levittown, Pennsylvania. The grounds
are pleasant, and we all enjoy the exercise and fresh air which tending
our lawn and flower beds affords us. Our son is a junior in the local
high school and is looking forward to moving on to college.

There are many advantages in living in surburbia, but there are
drawbacks, too; the most annoying is the length of time it takes to get
to work — over an hour each way. Churches and schools are excellent
and the place abounds in shopping centers. It has been said that the
average family moves once in five years. We have been in Levittown
almost ten. We have seen our neighbors come and go. Most of the
original home owners in our section have moved away.

As | look back over the last twenty -five years, it hardly seems possible
that so much time has elapsed since graduation, I find that over the
years my religious and political convictions have remained just about
the same as they were when I was a student at Harvard.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 397

ARTHUR FRANCIS GALE

  

HOME ApDpDRESS: 81] Rim Rd., El Paso, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bixler, Carlton, Dickinson & Rister, 2707 Montana St., El Paso,
Texas.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937, 1938-1940. pEGREE: A.B., 1939(40).
MARRIED: Martha Reinhard, Oct. 4, 1944. cuitp: Martha Lee, Jan. 28, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Trustee, accountant, auditor; associated with Bixler, Carlton, Dickin-
son & Rister.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, El Paso County Republican Executive Committee,
1952-58; chairman, Harvard Schools & Scholarship Committee, El Paso,
since 1949; board member, El Paso Boys’ Club, T.B. Association, Family
Service Association, Pleasant View Home; past master, Scottish Rite Chapter.

After being discharged from the Army, I came to El Paso and have
been here ever since. To have watched the rise of the Republican Party
in Texas and to have been able to play some part in it has been a pleasure
and privilege to me. El Paso has been able to send several outstanding
young men to Harvard during the years I have worked with its local
Schools and Scholarship Committee, and it has been a joy to me to see
the excellent records these fellows have made in and out of college.
Working with various charitable boards is my chief outside interest, and
I still find such work rewarding and stimulating, even if at some times it
is frustrating. My associates in the accounting business have my respect;
I enjoy working with them.

I have a charming wife and daughter, and those of you who will meet
them at the Reunion will probably wonder how I ever managed to marry
the one and beget the other. All I can say to that is, “I wonder too.”

Please let me close by wishing each of you a very successful twenty-five
years more. "

ALBERT FREDERIC GALLATIN ¢

LAST MAILING ApprReEss: 96 Crafts Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

398 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ANTHONY GALLUCCIO

J

A
ee winnie

  

*
2 et nei RS cnt Oth de aw

 

HOME ADDRESS: 56 Concord Ave., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Dept. of Labor and Industries, State House, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1942.
marriep: Nancy Williams, Jan. 15, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; associate counsel, Department of Labor and Industries, Com-
monwealth of Massachusetts..

OFFICES HELD: Member, Cambridge School Committee, since 1955; vice-president,
Michael Music Company, 1948-50; secretary to Congressman John
Kennedy, 1950-52; president, Dynacentric Systems, since September, 1963.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, Boston and Cambridge Bar Associations.

I find my major satisfaction not in my wealth, which is negligible, but
in the tangible influence which I have been able to exert in government
at all levels — local, state and national— none of which can be measured
by formal titles. I derive great satisfaction in being a main pivot in
President John F. Kennedy’s early career, his first Congressional cam-
paign and his victory over the most popular Republican ever in Massa-
chusetts (Henry Cabot Lodge). I have continued my efforts in behalf
of candidates on a state level and in state government, and I have derived
personal satisfaction in my service for eight years on the Cambridge
School Board, and as counsel for the Massachusetts State Department
of Labor and Industries. I am very fortunate in having been able to
retain the one thing [ cherish more than wealth, to the acquisition of

which 1 disdain to apply real effort, and this is freedom of action and
thought in the areas in which I choose to apply my mind and energy.

I seem to thrive on controversy, having a natural faculty for seeking

what I think to be the truth and speaking as I think. My life never

remains static — adventure seems to seck me out. My latest adventure

(at this writing) has been aiding and collaborating with and promoting

the fabulous inventions of a typically temperamental but ingenious in-

ventor who was thrust into my life by a series of unusual circumstances.

My first real adventure, along with the rest of you, was having my
law carcer interrupted by four years in the U.S. Army. (Private to first
ficutenant, Furopean Theatre, gth Vactical Air Command, intelligence
officer.) My second adventure after graduation from law school was
as attorncy and business manager for the projects of a wealthy bur

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 399

eccentric young multimillionaire who left Harvard in his sophomore
year because he found the atmosphere “too Communistic and liberal”
for him (his quotes). The site of our business was Tin Pan Alley,
Broadway. Music and show biz for three years unmatched by Alice
in Wonderland.

My family life is just beginning. I am happily married to a much
younger wife and expect to have a family of good size. 1 am what
one well might call a late-comer in this area; yet I feel that my major
accomplishments including my family are still in the future. On this
younger generation bit, I am in favor of the older younger generation —
youth with experience of age is still the best combination.

May I have many more jousts with windmills, real and fancied, and
may the Lord bless me with allowing me the freedom of thought and
action which I most cherish and which I think is in the tradition of the
true Harvard man. Incidentally, I do not spurn wealth altogether, if it
can be gained with relatively little or no effort and honestly without
compromise of principle (this eliminates 99 and 999/t1000 of possibilities).
Also, may I add that I find the intellect of the intellectual less discerning
than the common sense of the common man.

ROBERT PICKWOAD GAMMONS

    

HOME ADDRESS: 620 Lexington Ave., Terrace Park, Ohio. aad

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fuller Brush Co., Industrial Division, P.O. Box 68, Terrace Park,
Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Helen R. Hardy, Jan. 31, 1942. cumpren: Robert Pickwoad, Jr.. Oct. 20,
1943; Deborah Anne, May 1, 1946,

occuPATION: Industrial salesman, Fuller Brush Company,
OFFICES HELD: Secretary, American Badminton Association.

MEMBER OF: Terrace Park Country Club; Cincinnati Tennis Club; Bird and
Bottle Badminton Club; Terrace Park Swimming Club.

After graduation went to work for the Goodyear Tire & Rubber
Company and was managing one of their stores in Haverhill, Massachu-
setts, until the spring of 1941, when war and the proximity of the draft
caused me to look around for something on the military level. Much to
my surprise I passed a flight physical and found myself in the Naval

400 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Air Force by the end of April. I was commissioned an ensign in Janu-
arv, 1942. At the first available opportunity, Helen and I were married
with the able assistance of Tom Calhoun and Phil Brooks, I spent half
the war instructing in primary flight training, and the other half in a
Utility squadron.

Finally left the Navy after four and a half years and retired as a
lieutenant commander and returned to Goodyear. Stayed with them
until 1950 when I decided to join the industrial division of the Fuller
Brush Company and have been with them ever since. Never did ]
think that | would end up as a Fuller Brush Man.

We live in a suburb of Cincinnati and make occasional forays east
to see friends and family. Our son, after completing his freshman year
at Lehigh, has taken a leave of absence and is working in Boston and
taking courses at Harvard. We are casting around for a college for
Deb to enter next year. It doesn’t seem quite as easy as it was in 1935.

Our present ambition is to retire before we're too old to enjoy it,
We have a little land in Florida, and a little in Duxbury, Massachusetts,
and hope to be able to spend some time in one place or another some one
of these davs. Until then J remain an unreconstructed New Englander
and a steadfast but semi-forlorn Republican.

ROBERT TILESTON GANNETT

- — soe”

   

Home appress: R.F.D. 2, West Brattleboro, Vt.

OFrrice appress: Gannett, Oakes & Weber, 153 Main St., Brattleboro, Vt.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pecrees: a.p., 1939; Lie., 1942.

mannino: Sarah Alden Derby, Aug. 16, 1941. crtioreN: Sarah Alden, Sept. 5,
1947: Robert Tileston, Jr.. Jan. 17, 1950; William Brattle, Sept. 29, 1952;
Richard Derby, Now. 1, 1955 (died Nov. 21, 1955).

occupation: Lawyer; partner in firm,

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since 1950, president, since 1961, Brattleboro Memorial
Hospital; member, State and County Republican Committees, 1952-58;
chairman, Town Committee; member, Vermont House of Representatives,
1953-59; trustee, Bisenhower Memorial Library.

memarr or: ALD. Club; Harvard Club of New York: Varsity Club; Rotary Club;

Fike Club; Ausable Club, St. Hubert's, N.Y.; Ekwanok Country Club, Man-
chester, Vi.; Easex County Club.

Law School at Harvard followed graduation and E received my LL.B.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 401

degree at mid-term in 1942 prior to enlisting in the Army. Basic train-
ing in the Air Corps was followed by officers’ school at Fort Sill and a
commission in the Field Artillery in November, 1942. 1 was then assigned
to the 86th Infantry Division, being reactivated in Texas, and remained
with that Division’s Artillery Headquarters for the next three and a half
years until finally discharged as a major in 1946. Our only real action
was in the closing months of the European Theatre operations, but as a
Division our travel mileage probably exceeded any other — crisscrossing
the United States at various training camps, maneuvers, specialized am-
phibious training, etc.; being unexpectedly sent across the Atlantic fol-
lowing the Battle of the Bulge; quickly returned to the United States
following V-E Day, which found us in Australia; shipped to the Pacific
for a part in the planned invasion of Japan; and then stationed in the
Philippines following V-J Day, awaiting the accumulation of sufficient
points and service for ultimate discharge.

These extensive travels to all parts of this country convinced me that
New England was the area where I should settle permanently. So we
wound up here in Brattleboro, Vermont, a community of 12,000, located
only a bit more than two hours from Boston and four and a half hours
from New York. Home here for us now is an old colonial farm home-
stead built in the 1790’s on the outskirts of town, with approximately 200
acres of fields and woodland. After several years of on-the-job training
with an established law firm here, I formed my own partnership in 1950.

The 1952 presidential campaign embarked me into politics — first as a
founder of the first Eisenhower Club in Vermont, then as a member of
the delegation to the convention in Chicago which nominated Ike (with-
out question the most exciting week of my life), and ultimately elected
town representative to our State Legislature. After eight years in the
Vermont house, I ran unsuccessfully for the Republican nomination for
U.S. Congressman in 1960. Ever since, I have reverted to the role of
full-time law practitioner with my outside activities concentrated within
the local community — primarily as president of our hospital, which is
in the midst of an expansion and modernization building program.

Recreational facilities in southern Vermont are unequalled and ours
is a family of many activities together — ranging from regular skiing,
golf, tennis, riding and fishing seasons to a trans-continental camping
trip in the summer of 1962.

402 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

x.
&
¥
&
&

S

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 76 Hartwell Rd., West Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Board of Education, 222 Main St., Wethersfield, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Weaver High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pecREES: a.B., 1939; a.m. (Columbia Univ.), 1940,
Ep.p. Gibid.), 1950.

MARRIED: Betty Miller, Sept. 12, 1947. cumpren: Ira Stephen, Aug. 15, 1950,
Robert David, Dec. 4, 1952; Diane Merrill, Oct. 3, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Assistant superintendent, Wethersfield Schools.

MEMBER OF: National Educational Association; Connecticut Education Association;
Wethersfield Teachers League; Phi Delta Kappa; American Association of
School Administrators; Association of Supervision and Curriculum Develop-
ment; National Association of Secondary School Principals; New England
Association of Public School Superintendents; numerous other educational
organizations.

My education at Harvard was a subject-centered experience, mainly
in the area of mathematics. It has been only the past ten years or so
that I have begun to understand the great production that goes on in
our world — what life is, our purpose, our goals, our needs. But the
fundamentals were given at college so as to open my eyes and see
these things. Plato felt that education must set its goal in the direction
of wisdom, otherwise all knowledge acquired is meaningless, The bits
of sociology, literature, history and science that embellished my mathe-
matical training have yielded an increasing wisdom, I believe, with
maturity. But tradition in northeast U.S. conflicts with such philosophy
of free education beyond Grade 12 at the local level.

My doctoral dissertation at Teachers College, Columbia, was the
delineation of a public junior college program for a metropolitan area —
Greater Hartford, in particular. I have always felt that the public junior
college can serve to meet the problem of higher education for those who
cannot otherwise — or shouldn’t— spend four years at an away-from-
home institution.

Although some of my four and a half years of overseas duty during
World War If was spent in New Guinea and parts of the Philippine
middle islands, under rather rough conditions — for a GHQ officer —
I must admit to a happy year at Sydney, Australia, and even some note-
worthy days in Brisbane, Australia, while at OCS.

I have spent the past sixteen ycars teaching in Hartford and West

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 403

Hartford secondary schools, and in being a school administrator the
past six years. I am currently an assistant superintendent of schools in
Wethersfield, Connecticut, a town of 23,000 middle to upper-middle
class citizens. I can think of no more important or challenging job at
the moment than being responsible for the educational program of a
school system. I work with teachers, administrators and lay people in
continuously striving to improve the curriculum of the elementary and
secondary schools (twelve of them!) of the community.

The life of a teacher, married, with children, a home, and a burning
desire to take advantage of some of life’s pleasures, was and still is a very
rough one. One or two extra jobs—selling encyclopedias, teaching
Sunday School, tutoring, working summers, etc. —- were a must for me
until just a few short years ago. But I sincerely believe the status of the
teacher is improving, although always lagging in our economy. More
and more good men seem to be entering the profession at all levels. We
cannot do otherwise but make sure that we attract real top people to
teach in our schools. Too much is at stake for the very next generation
that is now in the primary grades—we cannot wait for the panacea
which is impossible — i.e., the new tax base, etc.

The longer I live, the more I find the need for something man has
long called religion — the certain something that gives direction to our
lives — the force that separates us from the lower species. Without it,
we have no drive, no love, no true happiness.

I have a wonderful wife — formerly a laboratory technician in the
Newington (Conn.) Veterans Administration Hospital. My three chil-
dren (ages, thirteen, eleven and seven) are the most restless kids I’ve
ever seen— fine, I guess, but making bringing up a rugged task. I
should like the two boys to go to Harvard, which I still think is the
“mostes’”” — but the admissions problem seems to get more and more of
a knot every year. I have faith, however.

ARTHUR DENNY GARDINER

~ pote
e a

      

BORN: Sept. 26, 1917, Chestnut Hill, Mass. PARENTS: Robert Hallowell Gardiner, 04,
Elizabeth Denny.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.
MARRIED: Mary Elizabeth Courtney, Jan. 5, 1952, Milton, Mass.

404 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

prep: Jan. 8, 1960, Tucson, Ariz.
wipow: Mrs, Arthur D. Gardiner, 4925 Camino Real, Tucson, Ariz.

After a year on newspapers in Boston and Bangor, Maine, Gardin.
joined the Navy in 1940 and was serving aboard the USS Chester :
the Philippines when Pearl Harbor was bombed. He was wounde
when the Chester was torpedoed in 1943, received the Purple Hea:
and was discharged as a lieutenant commander in 1945. After the wa
he joined the Benedictines in Portsmouth Priory, Rhode Island, br
left when he was stricken with polio in 1950. He then did postgraduat
work at Harvard, Stanford University and the University of Arizonz
He was widely known as a religious philosopher and student of Latir.
He had conducted religious study groups in Tucson and had translate

many classical documents, most of them dealing with philosophy. H
was survived by his wife.

HENRY HYDE GARDINER

    

HOME appress: 1499 Golf St., Scotch Plains, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tripp & Co., 40 Wall St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED aT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1937. prcReE: a.B. (Ohio Wesleyan Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Eloise Robbins, Nov. 27, 1958. cHiupren: Carelyn, Sept. 20, 1944 (m.
Steven Smith, 1962); Constance, March 3, 1949; Virginia, Jan. 12, 1952 (all

by previous marriage); Roxana, Sept. 19, 1956 (stepdaughter). GRANDCHILD:
Mark Smith, June, 1963.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president in charge of research, Tripp & Company, specialists in
municipal bonds.

MEMBER OF: Delta Tau Delta (life); Municipal Bond Club of New York; Munici-
pal Forum of New York.

After leaving Harvard in 1937, I worked for a couple of years, then
entered Ohio Wesleyan University; received A.B. degree, Class of 1941.
Served as an infantry platoon leader and investigations officer in World

War I. From 1946 to 1953, employed by Dun & Bradstreet in Cleve-
Jand and Boston. Entered investment securities business in 1953 aS

Connecticut representative of Lyons & Shafto, Inc., specialists in munici-
pal bonds. Represented Tucker, Anthony & R. L. Day in Connecticut
from 1956 until 1959; served as manager of the municipal bond depart-
ment of Tucker, Anthony & R. L. Day, New York City, until resigning

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 405

in October, 1963. Elected vice-president of Tripp & Company, specialists
in municipal bonds, November, 1963.

One of my hobbies: a frustrated follower of Harvard football. Over
the years the teams give you a shot in the arm by winning as underdogs
but usually lose when expected to win. Another hobby: golf. My golf

ame is much worse and more inconsistent than Harvard’s football, un-
fortunately.

GEORGE PEABODY GARDNER, JR.

    

HOME apprEss: 130 Warren St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 24 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Tatiana Stepanoff, June 21, 1947. cHmprEN: George Peabody, 3d, March
12, 1948; Alexandra, Nov. 14, 1950; Tatiana S., Nov. 11, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Investment banking; general partner, Paine, Webber, Jackson &
Curtis.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1953, chairman of the board, 1958, United Fruit Company;
director, Barry-Wright Corporation, since 1955, Arthur D. Little, Inc., since
1956, Kaman Aircraft Corporation, since 1957, Macalaster Scientific Corpora-
tion, 1961; trustee, 1950, president of trustees, 1954-59, Museum of Science,
Boston; trustee, Children’s Hospital Medical Center, St. Mark’s School,
since 1957; special term member of corporation, 1959-63, life member, 1963,
chairman of Visiting Committee on City and Regional Planning, member
of finance committee, Massachusetts Institute of Technology; trustee, Insti-
tute for Defense Analyses, since 1961, World Peace Foundation, since 1961,
Escuela Agricola Panamericana, Honduras, since 1963.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Arts & Sciences; AD Club; Harvard Club
of Boston; The Links, New York; Somerset Club; Tavern Club; The
Country Club, Brookline.

Through the small panes of our library window a pale grey light tells
me it’s mid-December — newspapers all over the floor and an unusual

uiet tell me it’s Sunday. A reminder —not just that I’m crowding
another deadline — but that it’s later than we think.

‘Out beyond I can see the driveway winding up to my mother’s and
father’s house — only a few hundred feet away. How strange to have
moved so short a distance in so many years,

Unthinkingly I slid through Harvard without even exposing myself
to its rigors or its riches,

—

406 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Not until I had traveled through Peru in 1939 from one end to the
other and out down the Amazon for ten months of collecting for the
Museum of Comparative Zoology, did I get any real inkling of the
scheme of things. Following this, six years’ duty with the Navy in
Pacific waters Was an important experience.

On return | visited Mexico City. At an evening performance of the
Ballet Russe there was such a marvelous ballerina I wanted to meet her
afterward. We did. Language was no barrier. Her rootless grace in
entering my rooted community has made for a wonderful life together.
While it’s true our boy, sixteen, and his sisters, thirteen and eight, can
share in Russian all the secrets they wish with their mother and her
extraordinary parents—I’ve never objected. Only delighted in the
“mix” these children are.

A stint in the advertising business taught me more about people and
what motivates them. The business and financial aspects of companies
for whom the agency (BBD&O) worked began to intrigue me. Quite
suddenly an opportunity arose to go to an investment banking and
brokerage firm, Paine, Webber, Jackson & Curtis.

Becoming a partner after two years, the many facets of this work
have never been anything but stimulating. The firm continues to
grow and I have every chance to contribute to and participate in this
growth as a member of the policy committee.

The Peruvian trip, combined with earlier stays in Puerto Rico and
Guatemala, had awakened a very keen interest in Latin American affairs,

I was elected a director of the United Fruit Company in 1953, and since
becoming chairman of the board have had a most challenging involve-
ment in that whole area. Although I must say we seem to have more
than our share of problems. A number of top management changes
have been effected and 1 am hopeful that in time this company will

realize its great potential. Such activities have required a good deal of

traveling but the compensating factors are a number of contacts made
in different parts of the world, both in Latin America and Europe.

As far as extracurricular activities are concerned, one might rightly
expect a fine arts major to have concerned himself with other than
the Museum of Science and Massachusetts Institute of Technology. 1
don’t quite know why it happened this way. Sensing the urgent role
of science, I groped for a way to understand something of its exciting
implications and perhaps in a small way hasten the day when that
excitement could be communicated to the young. These associations
have been immensely rewarding and happily there have also been oppor-
tunities to work on business problems of small commercial companies
in the educational and scientific field.

I suppose most of my frustrations are similar to those of a number
of classmates —some may be different: children grow up too fast and
so many things you were going to do with them never get done; the
golf ball boomerangs; old friends move away; exercise gets harder to
come by; Christmas gets more and more commercial and no one in the
family seems to like being read aloud to.

Among a number of things I enjoy: sailing at Roque Island and
Little Compton, interfering with my wife’s greenhouse work; business;

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 407

visiting galleries without buying, music; and meeting people who are
truly interested in what they are doing.
I sort of like what Edgar Lee Masters said in his Spoon River
Anthology:
. . . wherever you are,
Work for your soul’s sake,
That all the clay of you, all of the dross of you,
May yield to the fire of you,
Till the fire is nothing but light! ...
Nothing but light!

It’s even darker outside our window now, But I can still see that
driveway. 1 wonder if the distance is so short after all?

GEORGE BIRCHETT GARNI +

 
 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 1255 N.E. 95th St., Miami Shores, Fla.

STANLEY GEIST

 

SARACEN SOS a EE SITE

   

 

POG PUTTIN LO LO MLE
&
: %, ° ue
_

 

{OME ADDRESS: 100 rue du Bac, Paris 7, France.

sFFICE ADDRESS: 15 rue de Verneuil, Paris 7, France.

REPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEcREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m, 1047.

408 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

married: Eileen Wechsler, March 6, 1943, cHtLpREN: Rachel, May 2, 1949;
Stephen, Nov. 28, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Overseas resident engineer for U.S. firm specialized in communica-
tions and electric power equipment.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa.

pusticaTions: Herman Melville, Harvard, 1939; contributor to Dizionario dei
Personnaggi and Dizionario degli Autori, Bompiani, 1950 and 1956; editor of
French Stories and Tales, Knopf, 1954.

EDWIN IRVING GELLER

  

HOME AppRESs: 2995 Brighton Rd., Shaker Heights, Ohio 44120.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The May Co., 158 Euclid Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44114.

PREPARED AT: Shaker Heights High School, Shaker Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pEcREES: $.B., magna cum laude, 1939; M.B.A., cum
laude, 1941.

MARRIED: Margaret Hexter, Dec. 28, 1943. CHILDREN: Kate, Aug. 31, 1945; John,
March 16, 1948; Elizabeth, July 20, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Controller, The May Company, department store. .

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Montefiore Home for the Aged, 1948-53; captain, Fair
Share Division of United Appeal, 1961-63; trustee at large, Boy Scouts of
America, Cleveland, 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: Oakwood Country Club; Commerce Club; Cleveland Chamber of
Commerce.

   

erent ans i
ete el
ede reer enh

LAST MAILING AvoKESS: 377 Spahr St., Pittsburgh 32, Pa.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 409

JAMES FRANCIS GERRITY, I

    

HOME ADDRESS: 59 Cramond Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gerrity Co., 77 Franklin St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.; Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., 1939; M.B.A., 1943.

MARRIED: Ruth Mathes, Jan. 30, 1943. CHILDREN: Margot Mathes, March 20, 1945;
James Francis, 3d, Jan. 2, 1948; Peter French, Oct. 10, 1949; Ruth Dearborn,
June 6, 1952; Betsey Webster, June 1, 1954.

occupation: President, Gerrity Company, wholesale lumber dealers.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Windsor School, Park School, Boys’ Club of Boston, etc.,
at various times; director or trustee, New England Merchants National Bank,
since 1949, Suffolk Franklin Savings Bank, since 1950, Marriner Company,
Ine., since 1951, Dedham Hotel Corporation, since 1959, Faulkner Hospital
(Corporation), since 1960, and various other enterprises.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass. (board of governors) ; Harvard
Club of Boston; The 49 Club, Beston; York Country Club and The Reading
Room, York Harbor, Maine.

One of my great and continuing concerns since graduation from Har-
vard has been the establishment of the appropriate values in the operation
of my personal life. My time and effort have been divided between the
attempt to achieve a proper balance between success in the rearing of
five children and success in commercial life, which would appear today
to be measured by national or local prestige and the number of dollars
compiled.

While striving for success in each field I recognize, at this writing, the
decision in regard to bringing up my family must necessarily be handed
down several years hence. My commercial efforts have at least supplied
all basic necessities, and although no one can ever boast one hundred per
cent effort, I can look back with no great shame at my efforts to date.

After graduation, 1 served a two-and-a-half-year apprenticeship as a
lumber salesman for the family enterprise, operating in the “southern
tier” of New York State. I was perhaps the least successful salesman in
our company’s history and both it and I were spared further embarrass-
ment.

I interrupted my sales career to return to Harvard’s warmth and spent
the best part of two years at the Business School, receiving my Master's
degree in 1943. An uninspiring three years in the Navy followed, all
spent on land, trying to make my two gold stripes take on a greenish
hue so I, too, might be taken for a hero,

410 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

A biography of my life since the war would merely detail year upon
year of complete happiness, featuring a very close relationship with an
uncommonly wonderful wife and five children, each of whom is un-
doubtedly the outstanding one in the known world. I have thus far been
able to keep my dear wife deceived into firmly believing that she is
blessed with the most magnificent husband extant.

My waking hours away from the office are consumed by juvenile ac-
tivities. Skiing, golf, tennis, etc. My ranking in family athletic pro-
ficiency has dropped to No. 6 from No. 1 in but ten years. I hopefully
will hold this position at least through the Reunion.

My evening hours have enabled me to revive memories of personal
scholastic struggles as I have given battle to “senior math,” seventh-grade
Latin et alia in order that my five might approach the scholastic privi-
leges I enjoyed.

We live in Brookline, have five children in five different schools, Vas-
sar, Milton Academy, Noble and Greenough, Windsor and Chestnut
Hill. Each weekend in the winter we go to our Franconia ski house.
The summers are spent in York Harbor, Maine. The family life, domi-
nated by six chiefs and one Indian (me), is rather standard.

Episcopal Church, school, sports all occupy important positions (no
effort will be made to rank these interests). In general I can boast of a

tremendously happy home and family bereft of any stellar performances
but each member making a real contribution.

It is my hope that our Fiftieth will bring forth a comparable report.

JAMES RANDOLPH GIBSON

1 wrt
— a
-

      

HOME aApDpRESS: 201 Exeter St., Hartford, Conn.

OFFICE apprEss: EB. B. Kennelly School, 180 White St., Hartford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Braintree High School, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEcREES: A.B. 1939; ED.M. (Boston Univ.), 1951;
c.a.s. CWesleyan Univ.) , 1961.

marriep: Margaret Herbert, Jan. 14, 1946. cHrtpren: Genevieve Varney (step-
daughter), Nov. 24, 1932 (m. Donald Petersen, Sept. 25, 1954); Gail Karen,
June 1, 1949. CRANDCHILDREN: Donna Nicol Petersen, Feb. 6, 1956; Glenn
Anthony Petersen, May 3, 1958; Tracey-Ann Petersen, Nov. 11, 1962.

oOccuPATION: Science teacher and headmaster of Summer Science Academy of
Children’s Museum of Hartford.

OFFICES HELD: President, Farmington Teachers League, 1952-53; chairman, 1954—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 411

56, director, 1959, Northern Connecticut Science Fair; vice-president, Hart-
ford Teachers League, 1954-55; assistant district commissioner, 1958-59,
neighborhood commissioner, since 1959, B.S.A.

MEMBER OF: National Education Association: Connecticut Education Association;
Hartford Teachers League; Connecticut Science Teachers Association; Ameri-

can Meteorological Society; Harvard Club of Northern Connecticut; Danish
Club, Hartford Lodge 314.

PUBLICATIONS: Vista of Science Series — Space Research.

After graduation, a combination of logging, lumbering, and work
on my Master’s degree in education prepared me for my first teaching
position in a traditional New England private school. Three months’
teaching did not prepare me for four years’ wartime service in the
Army.

As for my war record, I consider myself fortunate — since | came
out alive. Just before the outbreak of war, in spite of my mathematical
interest and a Harvard course in navigation, the naval officers reserve
did not want me because I was too short, one inch less than the five
feet four inches required at that time. For the same reason, the “Fly
Cadets” did not want me, one inch too short — afraid 1 would not look
good on parade I guess. Later when sent to the first overseas OCS, I
was dismissed for the same reason, the commandant said that as a new
school they would not ask Washington for a special height waiver for
my missing one inch, So as far as the armed forces was concerned I
was too short for everything except to be shot at.

I remember the student published guide for Harvard freshmen —
recommended one take ROTC training if one wanted to be first in the
front lines —so I did not take it. In spite of this lack of training due
to a reduced basic training period and the good luck of being assigned
to a National Guard division all packed for service abroad, I made it
overseas not only before my Harvard tained ROTC classmates, but
before the regular Army men. Since I gained combat experience early —
Guadalcanal — they let me stay overseas (four years) until the end of
the war. Often I was thankful for my small size, it helped me dodge
bullets —a feat for which I received the Bronze Star.

Since the war, life has been very good to me. I have a wonderful
wife, have two daughters and three lively, delightful grandchildren.
Since I am in one of the world’s noblest professions — teaching — I do
not have to worry about any big financial transactions. People are
always telling me what a wonderful job I am doing, educating our
younger generation, and how valuable my services are. I am very satis-
fied by their statements that my service is “priceless* —in fact these
statements satisfy everybody except my creditors.

Well—if you do not read this résumé because it is received by the
Class Report Office too late (sent December 26th), you can think it is
because teachers have so much time off, and so little to do, that I sent
it in so early the Report Office lost it.

412 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

BENJAMIN CHASE GIFFORD

  

HOME ADDRESS: 39 Valley Rd., Bronxville 8, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Woodward, Baldwin & Co., Inc., 111 W. 40th St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935~1939_ bECREE: a.B., 1939.

marrieD: Adelaide Winsor, Nov. 9, 1940. cHitpreN: Benjamin Chase, Jr., March 2,
1944; Louise Winsor, March 5, 1947; David J., Oct. 9, 1954.

occupation: Vice-president, Woodward, Baldwin & Company, Inc., selling cotton
and synthetic cloth to boys’, men’s and ladies’ apparel manufacturers.

MEMBER OF: Weavers Club; Harvard Club of New York; St. Andrew’s Golf Club;
Bronxville Field Club; Acoaxet Club.

The textile industry has been my occupation since graduation. I have
had jobs with several fine companies such as Mount Hope Finishing,
Bourne Mills, Pepperell Manufacturing Company and at present I am a
vice-president of Woodward, Baldwin & Company. My principal effort
has been in the design and sale of cloth (mostly cotton) to large manu-
facturers of boys’ and men’s clothing. This is a highly compeutive and
rapidly changing area of the “rag business,” but rewarding and interesting.

Adelaide and I were married in November, 1940, having met the previ-
ous summer in North Haven, Maine, where I had a summer job. We
have produced three children. The eldest, nineteen, is presently a fresh-
man at Rutgers University, the second, sixteen, is a junior at Kent School
for Girls and the youngest, nine, is in fourth grade here in Bronxville.

My business necessitates a good deal of travel around the U.S. I have
never completely adjusted to this and don’t suppose I ever shall. The
airplane, particularly the jet, has really helped this situation, and the days
away become less each year. We have not traveled very much together
on vacations but, of course, hope to in the not too distant future. Ber-
muda a few times, Florida, etc., about comprise it. We either don’t have
the time or are too poorly organized to realize we do have it. Probably
the latter is the case.

I have a lot of hobbies at none of which do I excel. In athletics I try
to play squash once or twice a week, about the same frequency with golf
in season. I collect U.S. stamps, bird watch, keep tropical fish, all in a
very amateurish sort of way. We have a winterized summer house in
Westport Harbor, Massachusetts, which is a welcome oasis from New
York and environs, and which we have greatly enjoyed.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 413

In the service my career was lackluster and dull. I joined the Naval
Reserve in 1942 as an ensign and was assigned to section base duty in
Portland, Maine, where I remained off and on until late 1943. Then a
course in navigation, mine warfare and assignment to a series of ships,
the last of which was in Panama where I spent most of 1944. We had the
good fortune never to sweep a mine though we contacted nearly every
other conceivable object with the gear.

We have been quite happy living in Bronxville, though we miss the
country. All of the communities within easy commuting distance of
New York City are pretty crowded and of course are becoming more
so every day. Our church attendance is spotty. But we do belong to the
Reformed Presbyterian Church, and I have tried my hand at Sunday
School teaching for a couple of years with indifferent success.

I was somewhat disappointed that my eldest boy did not make Har-
vard, but there is one more to come. I look on my minor association
with the college with pride, and J feel that Harvard has done a great job
in maintaining its high place in the highly competitive field of education.

* WALTER SHERMAN GIFFORD, JR.

    

AS
BORN: Dec. 15, 1917, Washington, D.C. PARENTS: Walter Sherman Gifford, °05,
Florence Pitman.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.
piED: Lost in plane crash, July 31, 1944, in Pacific area.

Walter Sherman Gifford, Jr, engaged in newspaper work unul
1941 when he entered the Navy as an ensign. He was successively pro-
moted to lieutenant (j.g.) and lieutenant. He was killed in a plane
crash and posthumously awarded a citation by the Secretary of the
Navy “for outstanding performance of duty while attached to the
Division of Naval Communications from December 19, 1941, to July
13, 1944.” He was survived by his father.

nc ee

414 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

JAMES GORDON GILKEY, JR.

5
4

     

HOME ADDRESS: 128 Henry St., Brooklyn 1, N.Y.

oFFice appress: First Presbyterian Church of Brooklyn, 124 Henry St., Brooklyn 1,
N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pECREES: a.8., magna cum laude, 1939; 38.p. (Union
Theological Seminary), 1942; p.p. (Franklin & Marshall Coll.), 1963; po.
(Knox Coll.}, 1963.

MARRIED: Mary Fitch Randall, Sept. 11, 1940. cHitpren: Peter Belden, Feb. 27,
1946; Susan Howe, March 8, 1952.

OccUPATION: Clergyman; pastor, First Presbyterian Church.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Administrative Committee, National Social Welfare
Assembly, since 1960; trustee, Morgan Park Academy, Chicago, 1957-59, Birch
Wathen School, New York City, 1961-63, Biblical Theological Seminary, 1962-
63; director, Harvard Alumni Council, 1958-61; chairman, Scholarship Com-
mittee, Chicago Harvard Club, 1956-58; member, Alumni Council, Union
Theological Seminary, 1959-63, board of managers, Brooklyn-Central YMCA,
since 1962, board of directors, New York City Mission Society; member, execu-
tive board, Division of Home Missions, National Council of Churches, since
1961; general council, Presbytery of New York City, since 1963.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional articles and reviews in theological and church papers.

Following graduation from Harvard, I went to Union Theological
Seminary and there, in 1942, received my Bachelor of Divinity degree.
I was commissioned a chaplain in the U.S. Navy and participated in the
Aleutian Campaign with the Pacific Fleet. Following discharge from
the Navy I served pastorates successively in Utica, New York, San Fran-
cisco and Chicago. In 1960 I came to New York City to be executive
minister of the Riverside Church and in 1962 moved to Brooklyn where
J] am now pastor of First Presbyterian Church of Brooklyn.

In all my pastorates I have been closely involved with the social wel-
fare problems of the community as well as with the pastoral problems
of the church to which I ministered. In Chicago I was active with the
Chicago Community Fund and with the Welfare Council of Metropolitan
Chicago. Increasingly my concern has been with the human problems
posed by the urbanization of our culture. It has been my hope that the
parish church could make a contribution to the solution of those prob-
lems; and 1 have increasingly found myself drawn away from the
suburban church where those problems are not so acute to the inner city
church where they are a daily matter of life and death. Honorary de-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 415

grees given me by both Franklin & Marshall College and Knox College
were for work done in the area of the inner city church.

While at Union Seminary I married Mary Randall, Wellesley ’39, and
daughter of Clarence B. Randall, Harvard 1912. It was of some interest
to the Class of 1912 that we met at the 25th Reunion of that Class, my
father (James Gordon Gilkey, ’12) and my wife’s father being classmates
and warm friends. We have two children, the elder of whom exercised
independence of mind by deciding to go to Yale, Class of 1967. I be-
lieve Yale showed judgment in admitting him. Our daughter is an active
seventh-grader at the Packer Collegiate Institute of Brooklyn, New York.

ALLAN GILLIAM

   
 

. Lt ham
BORN: Dec. 2, 1917, Brooklyn, N.Y. Parents: Marion Knight Gilliam, Louise
Muthert.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic High School, Long Beach, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937, 1938-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939(40).
MARRIED: Elizabeth K. Gilliam.

pizD: May 19, 1950, Norfolk, Va.

After college Gilliam entered the business world and at the time of

his death he was personnel director of Schwartz Laboratories, Inc., of
New York City. He was survived by his wife.

DANIEL SHIPMAN GILLMOR

416 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HOME appRESS: 175 W. 72d St., Apt. 11F, New York, N.Y. 10023.
orFice appress: 10 E. 40th St., New York, N.Y. 10016.

PREPARED AT: Hill School. Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937,

THOMAS FAVILL GLADWIN +

 

LAST MAILING appRESS: 9040 Green Tree Rd., Bethesda, Md.

WILLIAM HENRY GLAZIER

  

  

f

HOME Appress: 135] Rhoda Drive, La Jolla, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Salk Institute for Biological Studies, P.O. Box 9499, San Diego 9,
Calif.

PREPARED AT: Weaver High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: S.8., magna cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Harriet Goldstein, March 29, 1940, cHiLp: Stephen Charles, March 22,
1947.

occuraTion: Assistant to director, Salk Institute for Biological Studies, biological
research institute.

MEMBER OF; Sierra Club; Harvard Club of Northern California.

PUBLICATIONS: Magazine articles on technological change and labor in The Atlantic
and The Nation.

My first taste of the labor movement came while I was still at Har-
vard. | passed out leaflets to Boston rubber workers, carried the word

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 417

to the homes of textile workers in Lawrence and walked picket lines
during the 1936 maritime strike and the strike of the taxi drivers who
ark across from the Coop at Harvard Square.

But it all wasn’t as grim as it sounds. There were the hilarious efforts,
led by an illustrious Dunster House tutor, to organize the waitresses
and the elderly Irish ladies who did the rooms. And the soup kitchen
operating out of Father Smythe’s rectory —his elegant French cook
served up a tasty bouillabaise to the startled taxi drivers who came for
coffee and doughnuts.

After a year as an Administration Fellow at the Graduate School of
Public Administration — newly married —I took a job in New York
with the Textile Workers’ Union at $30 a week. We had sublet a lovely
apartment at $85 a month, so it didn’t work. A bit chastened I turned to
the Federal Reserve Board in Washington. But I found it deadly. And
when the opportunity came I chucked it to join a CIO drive to organize
Texas oil workers. By the time the drive unravelled and we returned to
New York, Harriet and I had learned all about Texas. And I had learned,
first hand, how desperately indispensable the yeast of trade unionism is to
effective political democrary.

Then the Army. First as an artillery forward observer, then in the
OSS.

By 1946 I was back in the union movement once more, this time with
the West Coast longshoremen. I labored with passion and conviction.
The pay was minimal, and | developed the inevitable ulcer, but the re-
wards were deeply gratifying to me, I did everything and anything that
came along. And I counted myself fortunate indeed to be part of an
assemblage of intelligence and integrity which made life better and added
to the security and dignity of a lot of rather decent working men and
women.

But somewhere in the late fifties I discovered that something was hap-
pening —the defiance, the crusading spirit, the elan had gotton lost.
It wasn’t success, nor was it corruption and racketeering which smothered
the fire. These last evils are no more significant in unions than anywhere
else in American life — which is no testimonial to labor. It was quite an-
other affliction. What had happened was that all but a very few unions
had become “gleichgeschaltet.” In their pursuit of political and social
acceptability the men who lead labor drained off the challenge and the
rebelliousness; they were frightened by independent labor power, and
they were suspicious of the vision of a better America.

All the banality and vulgarity of Madison Avenue’s Great Celebration
took root. Proving, I suppose, that every society gets the labor movement
it deserves. So it ended for me.

I had the great good fortune to meet Dr. Jonas Salk at about this time,
and he asked me to join him at the new Salk Institute for Biological
Studies in San Diego. At this place scientists and other scholars, pri-
marily through their work in fundamental biology, will join in the ad-
vance of knowledge which is directly related to the health and well-being
of man. A new career and quite a new world for me.

Harriet’s painting has suffered since we left San Francisco for the
homogenized blandness of La Jolla. Steve, after three years at Exeter, has
taken a year off to write for a local newspaper. I’m reading science.

418 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

PAUL GLENDINNING

    

 

‘
Va

HOME apprEss: 2505 Edgehill Rd., Cleveland Heights 6, Ohio.

orice appresses: Glencliff Hospital, 25900 Euclid Ave. Euclid 32, Ohio; Ridge-
cliff Hospital, 2877 Ridge Rd., Wickliffe, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: University School, Shaker Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-39. DECREES: A.B., 1939; M.p. (Western Reserve Univ.),
1945.

MARRIED: Mary Hooker Daoust, Feb, 13, 1943. cHmpREN: Thomas Hooker, Feb.
25, 1944; Alexander Bell, Nov. 30, 1945; Chellis (Jill), June 18, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Physician and medical administrator.

OFFICES HELD: Administrator, Ridgecliff Hospital (psychiatric), since 1941, Glen-
cliff Hospital (geriatric), since 1947,

MEMBER OF: Cleveland Skating Club; Harvard Club of Cleveland; Estero Bay
Boating & Wildlife Society; American Hospital Association.

Fourteen or fifteen years since graduation is more seemingly real
than twenty-five. In any case, from that point, I have taken a more
serious interest in my environs.

Have been concerned with the geriatric problem from the mid-1940’s
and have managed to set up a hundred-plus bed institution to date for
some of the local geriatric problems (this is our pilot plan and indicator
of future needs). This field is garnering more and more public interest
and probable support from the federal government. The needs of this
segment of our population present a constant source of challenge and
doing.

Our student and athlete, Jill, is a sophomore at Hathaway-Brown
School (preparatory). We have hopes that she will select an eastern
college within the next two years, and that she will be chosen for one of
them, Sandy, eighteen, is finishing his prepping at University School.
The college problem looms large for him this year. Our twenty-year-
old son, Tom, decided to leave college (Trinity) this past year for the
military life of a Marine. He has a couple of years to go before resum-
ing his education.

My wife, Hooker, works harder than T do. She maintains many
and varied activities and interests. They include problems of the
community, church, art museum, church home, garden club, etc. We
spend some time on the Gulf coast of Florida each year. Our cottage is
at Fort Myers Beach, and we use it for our sunshine headquarters,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 419

Should our son Tom be on furlough this June, we would like to make
it a family fivesome for Reunion.

WILLIAM SIMPSON GODFREY, JR.

PPE RG EE eT SMO:

aR

   

~
gro"
we , ,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Logan Museum of Anthropology, Beloit College, Beloit, Wis.
PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1940. prcREES: a-B., cum laude, 1939(40); a.m., 1951;
PH.D., 1952.

MARRIED: Susan Henrotin, Aug. 11, 1945. cHitpren: William Simpson, 3d, Oct. 4,
1946; Isabel Angell, March 20, 1948.

occupation: Professor of anthropology, Beloit College; curator of archaeology,
Logan Museum of Anthropology.

OFFICES HELD: Executive secretary, secretary, treasurer, American Anthropological
Association, 1953-60; director, Wisconsin Archaeological Survey, since 1951,
Illinois Archaeological Survey, since 1956.

memBerR OF: A.A.A.; A.A.U.P.; S.A.A.; A.A.P.A.; A.A.A\S. (fellow of each);
Wisconsin Academy of Science, Arts & Letters, etc.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on Vikings in America and Archaeology of El Bajio,
Mexico; book reviews.

My Twentieth Anniversary Report reflected pressure and frustration.
Since then I have abandoned much of my committee work, spent many
months in Mexico, bought a house with a big (two-acre) garden, sent
the children to boarding school, organized my teaching. The last five
years mark a change from hectic to almost placid, although this may be
only superficial. ‘The account of the last five years is only one-fifth of
the span since graduation.

An account of my “Life Since Graduation” must go back to my senior
year. The opportunity was then offered me to go to Piedras Negras,
Guatemala, with an expedition of the University Museum of Pennsyl-
vania. I spent five months in Guatemala and the following September to
January in trade in Wilmington, Delaware, and New York. In spite of
the obvious intellectual excitement of Middle American archaeology, I
entered the cotton converting trade in New York on graduation. World
War II intervened and a two-year stint in India and Burma confirmed
my interest in cultures other in time and place than our own. However,
shortly after my return, my marriage and family problems demanded
my return to the “trade,” and until 1947 | commuted from goth Street,

datiatatsbetneatinsint siptemamacceamaman

420 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Manhattan, to Worth Street. I hated business but it provided for the
family. The death of my father (Harvard °o3) enabled me to return to
anthropology.

Peabody Museum recovered an inmate in February, 1948. As I walked
in, Dr. Hooton was sitting on the bench reading his mail. Said I, “Dr.
Hooton! It’s so nice to be back!” “Huh, Bill,” said he, “have you been
away?” In reality, 1 had never been away. Since then I have had the
years of graduate work in Peabody Museum, teaching as an assistant to
Clyde Kluckhohn, excavating the Old Stone Mill in Newport (and be-
coming involved in innumerable hassles with the pro-Vikings), teaching
at the University of Chicago, and finally, thirteen years ago, coming to
Beloit. A few years ago, my wife and I thought about small city life vs.
big city life. We concluded: we are not so remote that we cannot par-
ticipate in activities outside of town, but the town is small enough so

that we can participate in its activities. Beloit College has one of the

best archaeological museums in the country ( please, come and see! ), and

1 have many opportunities for field work in Mexico.

The last twenty-five years have had their ups and downs and who can
deny it? In the period, I have scurried up and down, as a regular Archie,
but now I am content.

SIMON GOLDBERG

    

HOME appRess: 27 Carlton Rd., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Goldberg Associates, 173 Washington St., Salem, Mass., and
Karelis Jewelers, 70 Merrimack St., Haverhill, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Salem High School, Salem, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DECREE: S.B., 1939.

marniep: Ethel Janice Feingold, Jan. 20, 1946. cur_pren: Joseph Martin, Nov.
29, 1947; Deborah Ellen, April 14, 1950; Betty Jane, Sept. 14, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Trustee, Goldberg Associates, real estate; partner, Karelis Jewelers,
retail jewelers.

Following graduation I spent the next year at Yale School of Drama
and then entered the retail jewelry trade, but this venture was short-
lived due to the war. Early in 1942 1 was sworn in as a private in the
Army and served for almost four years in the United Srates and Europe.
In November, 1945, 1 was discharged as a master sergcant.

By 1946 1 was married and again entered the jewel

ry trade, establish-

een ct _ | —.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 421

ing first one store in Haverhill and another a few years later in Lawrence.
Some of my time and most of my interest is spent in the real estate field,
and at the present time I have a share in an apartment house being
built in Salem.

By now my wife and I have settled into a rather typical suburban
pattern. We take active interest in the community and are busy raising
three healthy children. We enjoy (sometimes despair) watching them
grow. While I am still able to help my thirteen-year-old daughter with
her algebra problems, I am grateful that my sixteen-year-old son is able
to do his own trigonometry. With my son looking forward to college
in another year I am cognizant of the difficulties involved in entering
college today as compared to over twenty-five years ago when I entered
Harvard. I do feel that the children are being well prepared by the
Marblehead schools. Last one in line is a happy ten-year-old girl.

As a family, travel has been a favorite pleasure. Last year we drove
to the West Coast and back; and, aside from the normal bickering of
life in cramped quarters, we had a wonderful time visiting national
parks and satisfying our spirit of adventure. We still find home—
Marblehead —a very special place to live: close enough to Boston to
enjoy theatre and symphony and ideal in the summer for swimming,
sailing and gardening. We usually manage to get back to the Harvard
atmosphere every Commencement time, Summer too always means at
least one trip to Maine to get in some good fishing.

I consider myself a liberal and usually vote Democratic. Like most
people in this country I was horrified by the assassination of President
Kennedy. If any good can come of such an act, I hope that it will serve
to shock the country into a period of self-examination that will in turn
help eradicate hate and extremism. President Johnson has made an
auspicious start in his administration, and I believe he will be a good
chief executive,

In retrospect, the last twenty-five years have been good to me, and
I am looking forward with hope to the next twenty-five.

SYLVAN EMERSON GOLDEN

  

  

HOME appress: 9 Helen Ave., West Orange, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: The Fenway Press, Inc., 263 Ninth Ave., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

422 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEcREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.
marrieD: Divorced 1960, CHILDREN: Fred David; Lawrence Jerome.
occupation: General manager; assistant to the president.

OFFICES HELD: Member, presently, board of governors, New York Club of Printinp.
House Craftsmen International.

1939-42: Editor and business manager, Plays Magazine.
1942— : Edited anthology of plays for Dodd, Mead & Company.

1942-46: Army service. Enlisted as private, went to O.CS., saw service
in Saipan and invasion of Okinawa. After fighting was over there, be-
came commandant of Army college there. (Had good fortune of
meeting the late Dr. Spaulding of our Graduate School of Education as
he was chief of information and education and came to Okinawa on an
inspection tour.) Discharged 1946 as first lieutenant.

1946-48: Member of Rutgers University. Taught psychology as in-
structor. Starved to death, was married and went into business.

1948-58: Headed a printing-and-allied-trades combine that operated,
managed and financed printing plants, binderies and associated services.
Made and lost lots of money. .

1958 to present: Employed as general manager of large advertising
and promotional letterpress printers and lithographers. Living more

quietly and modestly than in the hectic 1948-1958 period, but enjoying
life more with a new and better sense of values.

ROBERT HURON GOLDMAN

LAOH eS

 

HOME appreEss: 82 Acton Rd., Chelmsford, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Sun Bldg., Rooms 401-5, 407-8, 8 Merrimack St., Lowell, Mass.;
85 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lowell High School, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. bEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; Lu.B., 1943.

MARRIED: Charlotte Rubens, July 5, 1945. cumoren: Laura Wallis, May 20, 1955
(died Oct. 20, 1961); Wendy Eve, Jan. 20, 1957; Randolph Rubens, Oct. 12,
1960.

occupaTION: Lawyer; partner, Goldman, Goldman & Curtis.

OFFICES HELD: Phi Beta Kappa, Harvard, 1939; former editor, Harvard Law
Review, 1943; former secretary to Judge Learned Hand, 1943-44;  vice-
chairman and member, Republican Town Committee, Chelmsford, since
1960; Citizen-of-the-Year Award, Greater Lowell Civie Committee, 1956;
author, “Drama of History” column, Lowell Sunday Sun, since 1955; radio
commentator on International Affairs, WCAP, Lowell, for ten years every

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 423

Sunday; National Commissioner on Adult Education, B’nai B'rith, since
1962; former chairman, 1958-59, commissioner, 1954-60, Lowell Industrial

Commission; director, World Affairs Council, since 1960; trustee, Belvidere
School, since 1961; etc.

MEMBER OF: B’nai B'rith; Lions Club of Lowell; Masons.

puBLicaTions: Regular “Drama of History” column in Lowell Sunday Sun for
last ten years; other columns in Lowell Daily Sun.

It is hard to believe twenty-five years have elapsed so quickly — law
school, then to New York as Judge Learned Hand’s law clerk and a
few years practising law in New York. And back in Massachusetts in
1951 to practise here. The law is a hard taskmaster. Yet I have found
time for work in civic and fraternal organizations and for writing and
radio work. My main hobby is reading, which I fear from what | see,
in spite of the huge number of books published each year, is really
becoming a lost art. My wife is a practising psychiatrist — she works
hard at that and at bringing up our family.

Being so busy in the present, one does not have too much time to
think about the future. As recent events have shown, the unexpected
always seems to happen in this age in which we live, 1 look forward

to seeing everyone at the 25th Reunion, but even as | write these words,
1 realize “how brief our mortal span.”

 

HOME ADDRESS: 7008 Millwood Rd., Bethesda 14, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Center for Naval Analyses, 1815 N. Fort Meyer Drive, Arlington,
Va.

PREPARED AT: Western High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., 1939; a.m. (George Washington
Univ.), 1952; pH.p. (Univ. of Chicago), 1962.

MARRIED: Teuntje Emma Visser, March 17, 1951. cHILDREN: Daniel Ware, March
28, 1952; Emma Wilhelmina, Nov. 13, 1956; Beatrice Juliana, June 2, 1960;
Robert Adler, Aug. 19, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Operations research; econometrician; long-range planning for U.S.
Navy.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Mathematical Statistics; Econometric Society; Wash-

ington Operations Research Council; Esperanto League for North America;
NAACP.

It seems to me our lives have been too much intermingled with history

424 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

to make a concise autobiographical sketch either feasible or worthwhile.
Looking back over twenty-five years, I am startled to note how little
my basic points of view have changed since undergraduate days. The
difference is that I have acquired a much greater amount of knowledge
in which to incorporate them.

HAROLD REICH GOLDMANN

ak NRC mer

      

HOME ADDRESS: 527 Second St., Trenton, N.J. 08611.

OFFICE appress: New Jersey Dept. of Institutions and Agencies, State Office Bldg.,
Trenton, N.J. 08625.

PREPARED AT: Trenton Central High School, Trenton, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Public information officer.

MEMBER OF: New Jersey Press Association.

Deponent pleads guilty to being an under-achiever and destroyer of
Class averages. His career is completely undistinguished. No leader of
men, no money maker, no great intellect or artist, not even a father!

After graduation he left Cambridge to make his way in a world re-
signed to the inevitability of war. He wanted to break into publishing
in New York. After months of trying and no luck he switched to mer-
chandising. Again nothing. He sought the safe haven of home (Tren-
ton) where, reduced to keeping body and soul together, he finally took
a job in a local canning factory and waited for the Army to claim him.
It did. Thirty-seven months of futility and release in more ways than
one at last.

Three attempts to enter Harvard Business School and three rebuffs,
equaling his 1936-39 record of trying to get into the Houses. Total
ignominy — rejected for admission to the Radcliffe Publishing Seminar.
Back to Trenton. An editorial opening with the State of New Jersey.
Our maladroit hero thought to spend a year there and try New York
again. The one year has now become seventeen. With good luck and
God’s help he may be ready for retirement at fifty.

He joined a few organizations in his time but let his memberships
lapse when he discovered that they had little to offer him. He thinks the
future is past and that the world has gone to hell in his time. He is

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 425

troubled about Harvard Today and if he could relive his youth he prob-
ably would not want to go there. What might have been had Harvard
not rejected this lonely son but let him share college life with his class-
mates in the Houses!

BENJAMIN SOLOMON GOLUB

  

HOME ApbprREss: Ramapo Circle, Harrison, N.Y.
OFFICE appRESS: 155 E. 76th St., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. prcREES: a.B., cum laude, 1939; m.p. (Boston Univ.),
1943

MARRIED: Edith Grace Stern, Dec. 22, 1953. cur~preN: Robert Joel, April 1, 1955;
John Edwin, June 24, 1959; Leonard Alan and Michael James (twins), May
30, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Associate orthopedic surgeon, Hospital for Joint Diseases, New
York City.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; New York State and County Medical
Societies; National Board of Medical Examiners (diplomate); American
Board of Orthopedic Surgery (diplomate); American Academy of Orthopedic
Surgeons (fellow); American College of Surgeons (fellow); New York
Academy of Medicine (fellow).

Following graduation from medical school in early 1943, and a brief
wartime internship, I spent the rest of the war in the C-B-I theatre mostly
in Assam Province, India. It was a rather primitive situation, but getting
there and back entailed circumnavigating the globe via South America,
Africa, Arabia, India and the Pacific. All in all, now that the years have
passed, it was a worth-while experience.

After the war I took my orthopedic training at the Hospital for Joint
Diseases in New York, completing this and entering practice in 1949:
I worked six and more days a week until Edith and I were married in
1953. I was thereafter gently led to realize that five scheduled days was
a proper and sufficient work week.

In 1955 we moved to the suburbs with all the attendant benefits and
problems. With the children getting bigger, we decided we needed a
little more space, and moved last year to our present home, But, of
course, it means starting all over again with the lawn, the basement, etc.

426 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

1 commute to the city by car but find returning to the peace of the coun-
trvside most welcome,

We enjoy travel and have visited Europe, the West Coast, South
America, and the West Indies. Like all other tourists we prefer to avoid
the beaten paths and seek the less well-known places. My hobbies in-
clude my workbench in the basement, puttering with a stereo rig and
some photography.

Politically I guess I’m Republican and conservative. I would like to
see a sense of proportion applied to the increasing invasion of privacy by
government, and to labor-management affairs. I would like to see labor
assume some mature responsibility.

These are busy years, and there is never enough time, but nevertheless
I feel a deep sense of gratitude.

DAVID MacDONALD GOODER

    

HOME ADbRESS: 1341 Turvey Rd., Downers Grove, IIL.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 135 S. LaSalle St., Chicago 3, Ill.

PREPARED AT: New Trier High School, Winnetka, Il].

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; 3.p. (North-
western Univ.), 1942.

marrieD: Elizabeth M. Hunter, May 10, 1941. CHILDREN: Wendy, Oct. 25, 1943 (m.

Donald A. Sarno, April 12, 1962); David MacDonald, Jr., Jan. 26, 1951.
GRANDCHILD: Brooke Elizabeth Sarno. ‘

OCCUPATION: Partner in Jaw firm.

OFFICES HELD: Member of library board, 1958-63, village board, since 1963, Down-
ers Grove; drive chairman, 1961, president, 1962-63, United Fund of Downers
Grove; president, Village Forum, 1959-62; chairman, Antitrust Section, Illi-
nois State Bar Association, 1955-57; chairman, International Law Committee,
Chicago Bar Association, 1954-57, Ulinois State Bar Association, 1960-62;
member of council, Section on International and Comparative Law, American
Bar Association, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Hinsdale Golf Club; Law Club of Chicago; Inter-American, American,
Illinois State and Chicago Bar Associations; Suciety of International Law;
American Foreign Law Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional! legal articles.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 427

ROWLAND DAVIES GOODMAN, IL

    

HOME ADDRESS: 7 Scarsdale Drive, Livingston, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 44S. Munn Ave., East Orange, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; M.D., 1943.

MARRIED: Ruth Julia Birnbaum, May 28, 1944. cHILpreN: Rowland Davies, 3d, Dec.

27, 1952; Joyce Davies, Oct. 4, 1954; Peter D., June 21, 1959; Gwen D.,
Sept. 11, 1961.

occupation: Physician in private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Associate medical director (part-time), Knoll Pharmaceutical
Company, since 1963; editor, Bulletin of the Academy of Medicine of New

Jersey, since 1958; secretary, Medical Board, East Orange General Hospital,
since 1961.

MEMBER OF: American College of Physicians; local state and county medical
societies; Academy of Medicine of New Jersey; Harvard Medical Society of

New York; American Heart Association; American Board of Internal
Medicine (diplomate).

After graduating from Harvard in 1939, | entered Harvard Medical
School, obtaining my M.D. degree there in 1943. This was followed by
a war-shortened nine-month rotating internship at Philadelphia General
Hospital. Next came two and a half years of Navy service aboard an
APA, mostly in the North Pacific. Our tours included Hawaii, Philip-
pines, Japan, Okinawa and Saipan.

Following World War II, | completed a two-year residency in internal
medicine at the Bronx Veterans Administration Hospital. In July, 1948,
I opened my office in East Orange for the private practice of internal
medicine, and have been engaged in that ever since. My work consists
largely of heart and lung diseases plus diabetes.

I was married in May, 1944, and have three adopted children; in Sep-
tember, 1961, my wife gave birth to a little girl, giving us four little
“responsibilities” to raise. As a result of this “population explosion” my
hobbies are oriented to the family. They include gardening, camping,
fishing, photography, skiing and boating. These activities, plus a busy
practice, innumerable professional meetings and the usual P.T.A.’s, Scout
and other endeavors account for about twenty-six out of every twenty-
four of my hours per day.

428 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

_DON ALD CHARLES GOODRICH

ET OE ONE IE SON ET TN ten ESI oy

Ty

$

 

HOME ADDRESS: 484 Bellefontaine St., Pasadena, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: R. A. Rowan & Co., 458 S. Spring St., Los Angeles, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Thacher School, Ojai, Calif.; Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1934-1939. DEGREE: $.B., 1939.

marrieD: Mary F. Burkhard, Jan. 13, 1942. cHiLpren: Elinor, Dec. 20, 1947;

Mary, June 28, 1949; Peter, Nov. 17, 1950; Mark and "Martha (twins),
March 4, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Real estate—loans and appraisals; correspondent for Connecticut
Mutual Life Insurance Company; appraisals for inheritance and gift tax.
memMBeR OF: California Club, Los Angeles.

Very little change since Tenth Reunion Report except for four more
children. 1 have had a very interesting and happy time in the real estate
business in Southern California since the war watching the growth and
development of this area.

We spend our summers at St. Malo Beach in San Diego County. This
is a delightful, small private beach area about two hours from our house
in Pasadena. The family spend the summer months there and I commute
on the weekends.

I am writing this report from Papeete, Tahiti, where it is extremely
difficult to do anything, much less compose a resumé of the last twenty-
five years.

EDWARD ALAN GOODWIN

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 429

HOME AppREss: 23] Upland Rd., Newtonville 60, Mass.

OrFice appress: Cole Drug Co. of Boston, 161 Massachusetts Ave., Boston 15,
ass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; M.B.A., 1941.

MARRIED: Ruth Miriam Silin, Sept. 5, 1943. cHitpren: Jeflrey Lee, Feb. 5, 1946;
Kenneth Silin, Feb. 3, 1949.

OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, Cole Drug Co., of Boston, own business con-
sisting of three retail stores.

OFFICES HELD: President, Temple Shalom of Newton Brotherhood, 1957; buyer,
Grandway Division of Grand Union Stores, 1957.
MEMBER OF: Masons.

In an age of bigness and specialization, I have spent the last twenty-
five years as a small business man, with all the trials and tribulations that
are the lot of any small entrepreneur in today’s society. Yet, if I were
to do it over again, I would not have it otherwise.

I have been privileged to build a growing business largely through my
own efforts. This pride of accomplishment and the knowledge that it
will endure long after I am gone has been a recompense that has made
this quarter of a century of my life worthwhile.

In addition I have been blessed with a happy marriage to a wonderful
girl and have had untold joy from participation in the growth and de-
velopment of two sons, My only regret is that business affairs have been
so demanding of my attention, that neither time nor energy has been
left for community activities. I hope that the next twenty-five years,
when my own personal needs become less pressing, will afford me greater
opportunity for such participation.

ELLIOT HERSEY GOODWIN

   

OFFICE ADDRESS: Humes, Andrews & Botzow, 50 Broadway, New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B. 19393 LL.B. 19-42.

MARRIED: Hope Taleott, March 2, 1944, CHILDREN: Ellen Taleott, Sept. 3, 1948;
Charles Bradford, Oct. 11, 1949,

occupPATION: Partner in law firm.
OFFICES HELD: Member, New York Republican State Committee. since 1960;
president, New York Young Republican Club, 1950-51, Republican Club of

ee _

430 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Oth Assembly District, 1955-60, Episcopal School in City of New York, since
1962; trustee, Kips Bay Boys’ Club, since 1950, New York Episcopal City
Mission Society, since 1950, Edgewater Creche and Rethmore Home, since
1960; director of James Talcott, Inc., since 1949.

I remember seeing the 25th Reunion Class at baseball games when |
was in college and thinking that the 25th Anniversary was remote in
time indeed, but the intervening years seem like an all too brief
moment. Following college graduation, came Harvard Law School
and that was certainly intensive, and then came four years in the Navy
mostly as a P.T. boat captain. Return to Newport, Rhode Island, for the
last year of the war and getting married was the wonderful event of
that four-year stretch, In the fall of 1945 came discharge from the Navy
and, due to marvelous timing, a Harvard law degree without completion
of the last three months of Law School (which I had missed due to war
service) and discovery that admission to the bar was automatic.

Since that time the years have passed even more rapidly with the de-
velopment of a family, law practice in New York and the usual ac-
companying interests. Attention to the interests of the Republican Party
has consumed the most extracurricular time and energy—-one un-
successful primary for the Republican nomination for Congress in a
safe district, money-raising, attendance at state and national conventions
and working to strengthen local organizations between elections. The
rest of the non-business time has been mostly devoted to child shelters,
boys’ clubs, summer camps for the underprivileged and a school for

small children,

GEORGE MONROE GOODWIN

cena ag rs me

   

ssn NE EAE A

 

HOME AppreEss: 91 Pond St., Georgetown, Mass.

OFFICE avpKEss: Taylor-Goodwin Co., 16 S. Main St., Haverhill, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS AT COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939,

mMankiED: Camille L. Chaput, Sept. 10, 1941. cHioren: Christopher, Jan. 3, 1944;
Eve L., Nov. 27, 1945.

occupation: Retail lumber yard foreman, assistant treasurer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Haverhill Kiwanis Cluh, 1957; senior warden, Trinity
Episcopal Church, 1961-63; director, Haverhill Chamber of Commerce, 1961.

MEMBER OF: Haverhill Kiwanis Club.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 431

After graduation went into the family retail lumber business and have
worked there ever since. Convenient family of four — self, wife, son,
daughter. Son now a sophomore at Norwich University and daughter a
freshman at Vermont College. Own camp at Hampton, New Hamp-
shire, and spend summers there. Forty-four months in service, all in
States. Ran gamut from private to first lieutenant in administration.
Traveled in forty-four of forty-eight continental United States, and in
the West Indies. Main hobbies are walking and skating in the winter,
Harvard football in the fall, and tennis whenever weather permits. Play
New England tournaments in summer. In ‘62 ranked fifth in Junior
Veteran (35 and up) Singles and third with Dr. Rubin Jaffe of Ports-
mouth, New Hampshire, in Doubles. Plan to keep it up as long as I
can run around.

Politically, a conservative Republican, but usually on the losing side.
Remoan the losing battle small business is trying to fight.

Whole family active in Episcopal Church, | as senior warden from
1961 through 1963, wife as Sunday School superintendent during same
interim, son and daughter as Sunday School teachers. Wife served on
the Diocesan Board of the Episcopal Church in Massachusetts.

Life has been good to me, having enjoyed good health and a wonderful
family. The future will pay off handsomely through my children and
my wife with whom I share common interests. Have enjoyed my past
years and look forward to further fulfillment in the future.

CRAWFORD GORDON

    

   

s ax
. 3 3
ROMS r C ° -
ey 4 ; < :
ay e y i
‘S 4 ey ¥ : aan
ere 7 q eo s

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Gordon Ranch, Kaycee, Wyo.
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: S.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Catherine Andrews, Oct. 27, 1945. cHILDREN: Valerie, March 12, 1952;
Mark, March 14, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Cattle rancher.

After graduation I ranched in New Mexico for two years. After the
war broke out, I was put in 4F because of a broken knee I got while
roping a calf. So I joined the American Field Service as an ambulance
driver in the Middle East, North Africa and Italy, between 1943 and 1945.

Then, after a stint of two years as a junior clerk in an investment

432 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

counselor's office in Boston, my wife and I moved to Wyoming where

we bought a cattle ranch in 1947, We have been here ever since, grub-
bing a living from the soil.

DONALD HASTINGS GORDON
“ Vue

ah
N

5 BK tee ~

| |

   

    

HOME appress: 83 South St., Medfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mobil Oil Co., 648 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

prepareD aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Jane Murphy, March 13, 1948. cHipREN: Edward P. Barrows, 2d, Jan.
17, 1944; Donald Hastings, Jr., June 6, 1949; Sally, Sept. 4, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Petroleum Division resale policy, Secony Mobil Oil Company.

OFFICES HELD: Community Fund, Portland, Maine, 1957.

MEMBER OF: Lions Club (vice-president, 1962).

Upon graduating in 1939, had grandiose plans for a trip around the
world with my roommates, Ollie Bolton and Rog Pierce. However,
Mr. Hitler put a crimp in those plans and I settled for a job with Sher-
win-Williams in South Boston. Next step was a brief fling with Uncle
Sam’s Marine “birds” at Pensacola. Following this I found myself work-
ing for Pratt & Whitney as a technical representative out of East Hart-
ford. Traveled over much of the U.S. and even “sojourned” for two
fog-filled years in Alaska and the Aleutian Islands. Alaska is unbeliev-
ably beautiful —wish it weren’t so far away. End of the war and I
finally got a job with Socony Mobil Oil —had been aiming at this since
college. Training period in Maine where I met my blue-eyed Jane. Com-
ing from the deep South and I end up marrying not only a Yankee but
a Downeast Yankee! What would General John B. Gordon say. We
lived in various parts of Maine for about twelve years — tremendous
state and we loved our stay there.

Transferred to the Division office in Boston in 1958. Lived in Need-
ham one year and then moved to the country in Medfield, where we
are now. Love it there — real country and nice people.

Three children — Eddie, nineteen, Donnie, thirteen, and Sally, seven,
and they are growing up fast — too fast. Eddie is away at school now
and we hope the same for Donnie in the near future.

Certainly am looking forward to the 25th and the renewing of past
friendships.

ee oe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 433

JEROME ANSON GORDON t+

 

LAST MAILING appREss: 101 S. 51st Ave., Omaha, Nebr.

DEXTER DAVID GOULD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 195 Heather St., Manchester, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lynch Co., 776 Elm St., Manchester, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936.

MARRIED: Estelle Lynch, Oct. 7, 1939. cHiLpren: Peter H., Aug. 18, 1940 (m.

Linda Radelsky); Nancy S., March 1, 1943; Priscilla E.. Aug. 19, 1949.
GRANDCHILD: Mark Gould, June 5, 1961.

occupation: President, general merchandise manager, treasurer, Lynch Company,
retail men’s and ladies’ chain store.

My first attempt at work was to enter the shoe manufacturing busi-
ness which I stayed with one and a half years. Going was too rough and
I pulled out. But I sure learned business in a big hurry. After that, in
1940, I opened a small men’s retail store in Manchester, New Hampshire,
where I have been ever since. First, I married in 1939, and lived in Law-
rence, Massachusetts, with my wife’s parents, since I lost whatever money
1 had in the shoe business. Borrowed money after this and went into
men’s retail field. Knew nothing about this, so my wife’s father took me
in hand and broke me in. From there on, I was on my own. Moved
family to Manchester where I have been ever since. My store prospered

ean " .

434 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

and grew and grew and grew until today it is a small junior department
store selling on three floors.

In 1949 finally moved out of a rented house and bought our home
where we now live. In 1947 took our first vacation and ran off to Puerto
Rico for a ten-day stop. In 1934 decided to branch out in the chain store
business and opened six small specialty shops in the ladies’ ready-to-wear
field. In 1961 my wife and I made the big trip and went off to Europe
where we visited Italy, France and England. Most momentous part of
our trip was visit with Pope John.

Because of the nature of my work, I go to New York where I am
working every other week. But aside from that and daily work, my
family and I enjoy our small boat that we keep at Lake Winnipesaukee.
We go there every weekend when the weather is good, boat around the
lake, camp there and do lots of water skiing.- In the winter, the whole
family snow skis and we spend Sundays up north or thereabouts on the
slopes.

Politically I keep hands off because of my business, but my Mrs. keeps
going and fights like mad for what she wants and works hard with re-

gard to better schools.

We have one daughter home now, Priscilla, first year high school,
and enjoy her ups and downs, while our home and dog are a great source
of satisfaction to us. Son Peter and his wife, Linda, both graduated from
the University of New Hampshire in 1963. Linda is a high school teacher
of Latin. Peter is working for Simonds Saw & Steel Company of Fitch-
burg, Massachusetts, in a training program learning the business in prepa-
ration for a permanent position. They reside at 837 Main Street,

Leominster, Massachusetts. Daughter Nancy graduated from Lasell Jun-
ior College in June, 1963.

F. CECIL GRACE

|

  

HOME AppKESS: 25 E. 86th St., New York, N.Y. 10028.

OFFICE AbpKESS: Visual Electronics Corp. 356 W. 40th St.. New York, N.Y. 10018
PKEPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, NH, , ao
YEAKS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: $.8., 1939,

UN MARRIED.

occupation: Chief engineer, Visual Electronics Corporation manufacturers of TV
and radio broadcast equipment, since 1956, ,

_ oe nen . pute oer RSP APT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 435

OFFICES HELD: Various engineering positions with Allen B. DuMont Laboratories
(now a Fairchild division) until 1956.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers; Racquet and Tennis

Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Two patents; several technical articles on television broadcast
equipment.

When World War II was over and I was discharged from the Air
Force, I got a job as electronics engineer and have been at it ever since.

At Harvard I was never much of an athlete or outdoors man and, since
in the early postwar years an engineer’s regular working hours included
Saturday mornings, I lived a rather sedentary life. Finally, however, the
day came when we got two-day weekends, and on one of the first of
these I was persuaded to go to Stowe for the sking. This I enjoyed so
much that I have been doing it whenever possible ever since. Later, I
took up mountaineering which I also enjoy tremendously. I have even
done a little sport parachuting, including two jumps in the French Alps.
I find traveling in foreign countries is most enjoyable only if one can

meet the local citizens, and the less usual sports are a great help to this
end,

STEPHEN STANLEY GRACEWSKI

23, Pf DNR eri a I Ko Teer nage AR MRT TTI
3 em
e

  

i!

  

ie
ony
¥
pa hE EAR Sc OR i

 

Home apprEss: R.F.D., Boston Post Road, East Lyme, Conn.

OFFICE appRESS: New London High School, Lincoln Avenue, New London, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Enfield High School, Thompsonville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pDEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; a.m. (Univ. of
Connecticut), 1949,

MARRIED: Julie A. Mish, June 22, 1947. cHitprRen: Alan Stephen, Aug. 28, 1949;
Diane Julie, Feb. 27, 1951; Nancy Katherine, July 8, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Teacher of foreign languages (Spanish this year), New London
High School.

OFFICES HELD: President, New London Edueation Association, 1954-56: director,
Connecticut Education Association, 1957-63; life member, National Education
Association; president, Niantic Lions Club, 1962-63.

MEMBER OF: New London High School P.T.A.; American Association of Teachers

of Spanish and Portuguese; Harvard Alumni Association; University of
Connecticut Alumni Association; ete.

After graduation from Harvard in 1939, frankly, I felt perturbed about
this apparently solipsistic, Hiclerian world in which we all found our-

a

436 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

selves. What to do? Mostly wait and see. In the meantime, for good
or bad, one does something anyway. I decided to enter teaching as my
career and so enrolled as a graduate student in education at the Uni-
versity of Connecticut. My particular interest at the time was to take
all the courses required in education to teach foreign languages at the
secondary public school level.

I was reassured somewhat in the midst of my searching insecurity by
running into a Harvard classmate, Hank Riecken, who was enrolled as
a graduate student in the Sociology Department. What luck! I felt ]
had company and was not alone in a strange new graduate world. So
we began together by renting a garage apartment and riding to classes
in Hank’s old Maxwell touring car. Ah, those were truly carefree days!

However, the preparations for war and career were not forgotten.
Along with courses in educational psychology, philosophy and practice
teaching came the course in Engineering School — civilian pilot train-
ing, with seventy-two hours of ground school work and thirty-five hours
of actual flying experience at Hartford Flying Service. This resulted in
a Private Pilot’s Certificate of Competency No. 10098 being issued to
me in July, 1940.

In 1941 I successfully completed a U.S. Civil Service exam as trans-
Iator of French, Spanish and Polish, and subsequently was appointed
graduate assistant in education at the University of Connecticut and
completed my course work for a Master’s degree. Only a thesis needed
to be written when I left for aviation cadet training in Santa Ana, Cali-
fornia, in March of 1942, By 1943 1 was commissioned a second lieuten-
ant in the Air Corps Reserve at Sacramento, and spent two years as
navigation instructor at San Marcos, Texas.

By 1945 I flew to the China-India-Burma Theatre of Air Operations
and was promoted to first lieutenant in the 1st Combat Cargo Squadron.
Since my Army serial number 0744059 added up to twenty-nine, I knew
that at that age I would be a civilian again and sure enough, the “Big
Bomb” dropped (August, 1945) and by May, 1946, I was separated from
the military service at Fort Devens, Massachusetts. Yet I stayed a first
lieutenant in the U.S. Air Force Reserve from March, 1946, to May,
1955, until I received a certificate honorably discharging me from all
military obligations with, of course, a testimonial of honest and faithful
service.

Incidentally, I met my former Harvard classmate and roommate,
Frank S. White, Jr., at New London after the war, since he was em-
ployed there as an engineer at the Underwater Sound Lab, I’ve kept in
touch with him and many another Harvard man since then. A meaning-
ful pattern.

From 1946 until the present time I have been teaching languages
(English, French, Latin, Spanish) at the secondary level in New London.

I believe in my job, my wife, my family, my students, my friends,

President Kennedy (Bless a good Harvard man!), my country, Harvard

and my ability to get to my class’s z5th Reunion!

~~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 437

ELLSWORTH STRONG GRANT

    

HOME ADDRESS: 134 Steele Rd., West Hartford 7, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 620 Oakwood Ave., West Hartford 10, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Kingswood School, West Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Marion Hepburn, June 12, 1939. cHt_pren: John Barnard, March
23, 1940; Katharine Hepburn, March 10, 1942; Ellsworth Strong, Jr., Oct. 6,
1950.

OCCUPATION: President and general manager, Connecticut Manifold Forms Com-
pany, business forms manufacturer, subsidiary of Allied Paper Corporation;
president and treasurer, Charter Oak Realty Company, investments and real
estate.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Kaman Aircraft, Bloomfield, West Hartford Publishing
Company, Hail Company, Windsor Locks, Conn.; founder and first coordinator,
Hartford Small Plant Group Medical Service; director, Hartford Junior
Achievement; chairman, Inter-Racial Scholarship Committee of Greater Hart-
ford; member, executive committee, Printing Industry Association of Connec-
ticut and Western Massachusetts; member, Budget Committee, Connecticut
Republican Finance Committee; member, Advisory Committee on Occupa-
tional Health to the Surgeon General; regional vice-president, Associated
Harvard Clubs.

MEMBER OF: Hartford Club; Harvard Club of Northern Connecticut (past presi-
dent) ; Essex Yacht Club; 20th Century Club; Hartford Rotary Club; YMCA;
Newcomen Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on industrial relations and industrial medicine.

With a group of other young journalists started a tabloid daily news-
paper in Hartford before World War II. From 1940 until 1958 was em-
ployed by the Allen Manufacturing Company, Hartford, which makes
socket screws and other precision fasteners, in several different positions
ranging from personnel manager to vice-president of manufacturing;
also director of firm.

To me the tantalizing aspect of having reached the midpoint of my
post-college education and career is not the rapid passage of years but
the frustration of determining just what I have done of value and where
I stand today. Most of us can claim that we have worked hard, that we
have added to the population, that we enjoy life, etc. But I find it
difficult to set down my attitudes and beliefs in black or white terms;
indeed, most of them are quite gray. Experience tends to blur and blend
the colors of life’s big problems, while making easier the handling of the
little ones —- such as what time one will have his first martini.

438 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

For example, although a Congregationalist mostly by way of desiring
to belong to some church, I question much of the traditional Christian
mythology and the relevance of church organizations to the zoth cen-
tury. Likewise, I am a Republican who wants to preserve individual
freedoms, to have less rather than more government and to restore sound
fiscal policies at home and abroad. Yet when it comes to going all the
way right and backing a conservative who favors undoing established
social programs, I hesitate. In such instances, I sympathize with both
sides vet cannot completely embrace either.

What I am trying to say is that the complexity of our life and umes
does not permit fixed, comfortable positions, if we wish to be intellectual-
ly honest. The search for what is meaningful, right, just, or true ends.
only at senility or death, During this process the act of commitment to
a particular creed or cause involves painful, confusing deliberation. This
is why so often I, like many another, I am sure, do things because of
pressure, instinct, line of least resistance, or some other irrational but
convenient motive. Looking ahead, I anticipate that the main issues that
will confront us at our 30th and even at our soth Reunion will still be
the role of government versus the individual, integration of mmority

groups, a sound dollar, foreign aid, relations with the Communists (espe-
cially the Chinese), overpopulation and the ecumenical movement.
What an exciting world in which to breathe! And how fortunate is our
vantage point — geographically, materially and spiritually!

FREDERIC DELANO GRANT

   

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Swarthmore Rd_, Wellesley 81, Mass.
OFFICE appkess: 75 Cambridge Pkwy., Cambridge 42, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. Decrees: a.B., magna cum laude, 1939; s.m. (Mass.
Inst. of Technology), 1951.

marnivp: Madeleine J. Batten, Dec. 20, 1952. cHiprEN: Frederic Delano, Jr.,

July 16, 1954; Madeleine M., Feb. 27, 1956; Pamela F., Oct. 10, 1958; George
B., March 11, 1962.

occurATION: Instrumentation engineering, research and development.

After leaving Harvard, I went to work for a city planning group in
Chicago. Since sociology had been my field of concentration this seemed
logical. One of my most interesting duties was maintenance of a nation-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 439

wide zoning file. 1 then went on to the Regional Plan Association in
New York City where I engaged in traffic and parking studies, We made
some recommendations, but I am afraid little came of them, at least at
that time. I came to feel that much good planning is not feasible be-
cause of the limited powers of planners. Political realities often dilute
a promising city plan to the point of unrecognizability.

During the war, I worked for the Postal Censorship Office in New
York and in New Orleans. The latter proved fascinating from a culinary
and historical point of view. Later I did war work with an engineering
firm back in New England.

After the war’s close, I studied at Michigan and M.LT. At the latter,
I specialized in instrumentation in the Aeronautics (now Aeronautics
and Astronautics) Department, receiving a Master’s in 1951.

After a short vacation back in the South, I joined the then-small In-
strumentation Laboratory at M.ILT. and have been there ever since. In
the early days, we helped to develop automatic anti-aircraft fire control
systems. We then worked on systems for the Terrier and Tartar missiles.
Our group was responsible for the Polaris guidance system. Our target
is the moon. Over the years, my primary responsibility has been develop-
ing mathematical foundations for guidance system theory.

In December, 1952, I married Madeleine J. Batten of Montclair and
Pinehurst. We have four children equally divided between redheads
and blonds, boys and girls. After living in Boston and Cambridge, we
have now plunged bravely into suburban life and had a house built for us
in Wellesley. Three months in the new house have proved to be very

pleasant living. The only fly in the ointment is the sea of crabgrass
where our front lawn should be.

GEORGE ALEXANDER GRANT, JR.

    

HOME apDpRess: 19 Harding St., Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Kennedy’s, Inc., North Shore Shopping Center, Peabody, Mass.

PREPARED At: Dedham High School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936, 1937-1940. pEGREES: s.B., 1939; M.p.a, 1042.

MARRIED: Phylis Bonnemort, May 31, 1942. cHiLoren: Karen, Aug. 23, 104;
JoEllen, Aug. 29, 1946; Lois, Jan. 16, 1951; Isla, Sept. 23, 1954; Robie, Nev,
24, 1958.

occupation: Manager, boys’ clothing department, Kennedy’s, Inc,

440 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

EDWIN CULBERT GRAS
ee poet

  

So cate, ee amen ppt ate ne te name

 

HOME ADDRESS: 125 Academy St., Annapolis, Md. 21401.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1940.

marerieD: Alta P. Campbell, July 2, 1943. cuitpren: Carole Ann, Sept. 15, 1947;
Robert Sterling, Aug. 14, 1949.

occupaTion: Associate professor of mathematics.

MEMBER OF: American Mathematical Association; U.S. Power Squadron; U.S,
Naval Academy Sailing Squadron.

After two years of graduate work in mathematics at Harvard, I took
a job as instructor in alternating currents at the Harvard School of Engi-
neering. My students were Reserve officers who were being trained in
the new field of radar. During this time I met Alta, a minister’s daughter,
who was a student dietitian. We got engaged just before I entered the
Army as a second lieutenant in the Signal Corps. I returned to Harvard
and M.1.T. for six months of radar training. We got married on July 2,
1943. After finishing this radar assignment, we went to Florida where
I was made the commanding officer of a Special Weapons Detachment
in the Air Corps. We trained in Azon Bombs with radio-controlled
rudders, television-controlled Glide Bombs, and jet-powered Buzz
Bombs. The war was over before we could convince any overseas gen-
eral of our importance, and I was sent to Counter Intelligence School.
We studied under F.B.L instructors. The rest of the class went to Ger-
many to conduct the War Trials, while I got out of the Service due to
having sufficient points. I became a first lieutenant in the Air Corps
Reserve.

On July 1, 1946, I came to Annapolis as a civilian instructor in the
Mathematics Department at the Naval Academy. I am still there and
enjoy teaching the small classes of fifteen Midshipmen. Besides teaching
calculus and mechanics, I also teach modern algebra and matrix theory.
I also have administrative duties in the Mathematics Department.

I am very active in the ocean sailing program. We have eighteen
ocean-going yachts, in size from forty-four to eighty-eight feet. I have
sailed on all of them and have been skipper on four ocean races with
Midshipmen crews. The Annapolis-Newport and the Newport-Bermuda
races are a thrill that not everyone gets to enjoy. I am out on the water

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 441

almost seven days a week from March 1st to November rst. Alta and
the two children are expert sailors, and we often go off for several days
with other families to explore the wonderful Chesapeake Bay.

We belong to the First Presbyterian Church in Annapolis, where Alta
is active in the Sunday School and the choir. She is a Girl Scout leader
with a Troop of girl mariners. I belong to the U.S. Power Squadron
where I teach celestial navigation. At present, I am rear commodore of
the Naval Academy Sailing Squadron.

ARTHUR MEEKER GRAY +

  

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 1631 Fredericks, San Luis Obispo, Calif.

WILLIAM ELIAS GRAY

  

   

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 214, Air War Coll

PREPARED AT: Liberty High School, Liberty, N.Y. “ee, Maxwell AFB, Ala.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: a.B., 1939(4]1).

MARRIED: Thelma Elizabeth Britt-Humpish.

occupation: Colonel, U.S. Air Force,

I am afraid my own case is an example of inertia in its ultimate and
most sublime form, having found myself in military service in Januar .
of 1941, I somehow never did seem to get out agi >

° "Vt ain, In this , .
forgive the milicary photograph —the Air War College was taking pie

142 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

tures during November, 1963, and the occasion seemed suited to Har
vard’s purposes as well. (Note, too, that if you quit smoking, you gais
weight — fifteen pounds in four and a half years. )

A mihtary guided tour at this juncture would be quite a bore. Suffice
it to sav that | have dallied in, or over, much of this shrinking planet at
government expense. One major crash, one finger loss, and one beat-up
spinal column are among my most significant trophies, all acquired para-
doxically enough in peacetime flight test activity, when no one was par-
ticularly angry at anyone else.

A.M. anticipated completed at George Washington University in
1964.

ROBERT LEE GREEN, JR.

ee Er

     

HOME appress: 148 Old Highway, Wilton, Conn.
PREPARED AT: Baltimore Polytechnic Institute, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: $.B., 1939; B.D. (Episcopal Theological
School), 1943.

MARRIED: Josephine Webster Hyde, Sept. 18, 1943. cHitpREN: Robert Lee, 3d, Nov.
30, 1944; David Hyde, Sept. 25, 1946; Christopher Webster, May 18, 1949;
Jonathan Allerton, March 11, 1952; Richard Burdon, Sept. 25, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Ministry; rector, St. Matthew’s Parish.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in journals,

My first four years after graduation were spent largely in trying to
discover what work and purpose in life I might commit myself to. A
year at the Harvard Business School, where I may have learned more
about how to think than in four years of college; a year at Episcopal
Theological School until the war; six months in the Naval Air Corps
before | washed out; back to the Seminary, where I graduated in Sep-
tember, 1943.

Married Joy Hyde from Waterbury, Connecticut, in September, 1943.
This is the best thing that ever happened to me. We have five sons,
from nineteen down to four. We enjoy family life and have spent a
good part of the past twenty years in raising boys. About eight years
ago, we discovered Vermont, where we have a great time in the summer.

L spent the first few years of my ministry in a small parish near St.
Louis, Missouri. This didn’t work out too well; partly my own imma-
turity and partly the problem of institutionalism in parish life which can

~ —_ | |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 443

be very discouraging for those just beginning their ministry. Anyway,
I went on to what I thought would be greener pastures and became an
assistant in a large Episcopal Church in Atlanta, Georgia. This was even
worse but I can’t bear to go into that.

In a geographical sense, I have settled down a bit in the past sixteen
years — six in Worcester, Massachusetts, and the past ten here in Wilton,
Connecticut. For many years my main concern in my parish ministry
has been with what is called the renewal of the Church. This has to do
with making Christianity more of a force in the everyday lives and af-
fairs of people, It involves a continuing battle with those who want the
Church to continue its business as usual when the radically changed
world of today demands that the Church revolutionize much of its life
and methods. So I engage in a good bit of experimentation as I take part
in the search for the new forms of ministry which the new America
needs. I am active in the Ecumenical movement, especially at the grass
roots level. The Churches of Wilton have an Ecumenical Center in the
Village Shopping Center where we work on getting the Church more in-
volved in the life of the world. During a period when most of the efforts
of organized religion are concerned with the private sphere of life, our
work at the Center is concerned with public affairs.

In politics, I have always been a liberal Democrat. The Democratic
Party continues to show a better grasp of the need for our country to
discover new solutions for the radically new problems we face on all
fronts. Goldwater symbolizes my worst fears for America. It is alarm-
ing to reflect on what the current popularity of Goldwater reveals about
the bankruptcy of the Republican Party. How catastrophic it would be
if his point of view on taxes, states’ rights, race, and international issues
were to prevail! For the world, a Goldwater victory would be com-
parable to a nuclear war disaster.

VICTOR SIMON GREENEBAUM

ERNIE TE OE NT ET SRE

     

HOME ApDRESS: 1325 Westminster Drive, Cincinnati 25, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Neon Engineering, Inc., 1425 Spring Lawn, Cincinnati 23, Ohio.
PREPARED AT: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Carolyn Weil, June 7, 1941. cHILDREN: James Victor, April 5, 1949;
Vicki, Dec. 3, 1951.

44d HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

occupation: Qwner, president, Neon Engineering, Inc. (Cincinnati-Atlanta),
suppliers to electric sign industry.

orrices HELD: Director, National Electric Sign Association, 1958-61; president,
Rockdale Temple Men’s Club, 1951-52; board member, National Federation
of Temple Brotherhoods, 1953-54; flotilla commander, 1961, division vice-
captain, 1962-63, U.S. Coast Guard Auxiliary.

Twenty-five years—TI suppose it sounds trite, but it doesn’t really
seem that long. The reason is that, to say the least, it has been a very full
and interesting period. This sketch will also be brief as I feel the years
from 1939 to 1964 have been brief.

After graduating in 1939 and not returning to any Graduate School, I
held several jobs before I entered the Army in June, 1942. I served in
this country in Kentucky, Arkansas and Tennessee, during which time
my wife accompanied me. We really think the experiences of these
years were most broadening and interesting. Served eighteen months
overseas in Germany and France, about eight months of these in combat,
and returned (all in one piece) to be discharged as captain, Armored
Forces. I feel that the education and appreciation of organizing material

I learned at Harvard aided me greatly in my Army career and especially
in my graduating from OCS and becoming an officer. oo.

Returning to civilian life in 1946, I returned to my former position in
retailing and after about two years I found the occupation which now
occupies my working (and sometimes sleeping) hours. I am owner and
president of a company which supplies the electric sign industry. In this

job I have traveled from coast to coast and met many interesting and

challenging experiences. Have also served on several local and national
boards and committees.

We have two very active children (not yet college age) who occupy
our lives when we are not busy trying to keep business affairs on an even
keel. My interests are traveling with our children to many parts of our
country and boating, to which I have been devoted over the last six years.
We are now on our third boat and enjoy the Ohio River whenever we
have the needed time.

In politics 1 am unaffiliated and try to vote the man and not the party.
Tam still a member of the same Reform Jewish Temple in which I was
confirmed over thirty years ago.

I suppose I feel as 1 guess most members of °39 feel, that the world is
a terribly frightening, confused and fascinating place, but glad to be an
infinitesimal part of same and feel that we can hopefully look forward

to the future. Also, I feel that Harvard will do its share of shaping 2
great deal of this future.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 445

PETER BULKELEY GREENOUGH

    

   

      

HOME ADDRESS: 76 Robbins St., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Globe, 135 Morrissey Blvd., Boston 7, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: S.B., 1939. :

MARRIED: Beverly Sills, Nov. 17, 1956. cHILDREN: Lindley, June 25, 1946; Nancy
Vose, Aug. 12, 1949; Diana Bulkeley, Feb. 17, 1951 (by previous marriage) ;
Meredith Holden, Aug. 4, 1959; Peter Bulkeley, Jr., June 29, 1961.

occupation: Financial editor, Boston Globe.

OFFICES HELD: Former president, Bratenahl, Ohio, Board of Education.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Delta Chi (professional journalism society); Milton-Hoosic

Club; Delphic Club.

If you were to slice my post-college existence into parts, it would be a
three-way pie:

1. A Master’s degree at Columbia (journalism), one year, then five
years in the U.S. Army Air Corps.

2, Fourteen years in Cleveland, Ohio, in newspaper work.

3. Five years in Boston, also as newspaper editor.

The missing year? In New York right after the war, to find that
magazine work was not for P.B.G.

Somewhat more specifically, I was a pilot-intelligence officer in the
Air Corps—nineteen months in the ETO-African-Sicilian-Italian
theatres with Troop Carrier Command, 800 operational hours. Combat
awards: Air Medal, Army Commendation Ribbon. Later associate editor
of Impact magazine, classified Air Corps picture mag.

After discharge became aviation editor of Science Illustrated, a
McGraw-Hill magazine that later folded. In 1947 rejoined the Cleveland
Plain Dealer, where I had worked summers during college. Was in-
dustrial reporter, later associate editor (editorial writer), finally general
business and financial editor.

By 1960 Cleveland had somewhat blown a fuse economically because
of failure to latch onto electronics-space-oriented work. Joined Boston
Herald summer 1960, as business editor; hired in spring, 1961, by Boston
Globe as financial columnist. Same to date.

Settled in Milton in old spacious Georgian house where out-of-town
classmates are frequently (but not frequently enough) welcome to pop
in.
Much as I am intrigued by my job (there never is a lack of business or

446 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

financial subjects to analyze in the New Boston community), the hap
part of life revolves around my lovely wife and family. She is pi
donna of the New York City Opera Company and has becn a leac
soprano with many of the top opera companies and symphonies in
country, We make travel our hobby; on her out-of-town performar.
L invariably go along and quite often the older children, too. But sing
is only a hobby with my wife; her family (five children from sevente
down to two) come first. We are both avid fishermen, from Mexico
Hawaii to Nassau to Martha’s Vineyard. A little golf, some tennis, t
much football (via TV), gardening, entertaining, considerable busin.
and pleasure travel, a great deal of theatre and music — these are wh
we love and do. So what else is new?

From a professional vantage (and seeing how deeply M.I-T. ente
the Greater Boston business fabric), I find Harvard devoid of communi
interest except, somewhat, through the Business School. The Colleg
aims so at being a national organization that it misses, I feel, lending all
could to local development. Still, an objective look at an educatio.
octopus is not the easiest thing to do successfully. As of now, I woule

not send my son there. In sixteen years, I hope I'll be able to say ar
emphatic “Yes!”

ELISHA RUSSELL GREENWOOD, JR. ¢

     

LAST MAILING ADDRESS; National Securiti . Broadway:
New York, N.Y. 10005, ecurities & Research Corp., 120 Bro ’

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 447

JOHN GRINDLE, JR.

¥ Be Son serpin poet a rR

  

HOME ADDRESS: 4215 Seventh St., N.W., Washington 11, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Milbank, Tweed, Hadley & McCloy, 821 15th St., N.W., Washington
ds

PREPARED AT: St. John’s College High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: 5.B., cum laude, 1939; LuB., 1943(47).

OCCUPATION: Lawyer — tax, corporate, trust, finance and administrative law practice.

OFFICES HELD: National vice-president, Harvard Law School Association, 1963-64;
president, Harvard Law School Association of the D.C., 1962-63; general
assistant to Secretary of Health, Education & Welfare, 1953-54; vice-chairman,
Business Committee of National Symphony Orchestra Sustaining Fund, 1957-
59; member, Steering Committee, Program for Harvard College in D.C., 1958-
59; chairman, Finance Committee, Harvard-Radcliffe Scholarship Concerts in
D.C., 1961, 1963; deputy-chairman, Harvard Law School Fund in D.C., 1956-
64; director, English Speaking Union, Washington Branch, 1958-65, Health
& Welfare Council of the D.C., 1960-65; secretary, 1953-59, vice-president
1959-61, member, executive committee, 1953-64, Harvard Club of Washing-
ton, D.C.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D.C., National Lawyers’ Club; National
Trust for Historic Preservation.

Fresh out of college and brimming over with energy and economic
theory, I managed to find a way of working all day and a good part of
most nights as an economist, first for one, then for a group of law firms,
and to appear, after a year and a summer of such efforts, as an “expert
economist” in a series of court hearings. A heady experience. It also
gave me my first taste of the delights of working with first-class legal
minds.

Then back to Harvard, to the Law School. My draft notice came
before I started my second year .ad I Janded in the Navy Department in
charge of aviation accident statistics. Wartime Washington had a great
deal of verve and elegance, as well as urgency and purpose. I formed
many of my most valuable friendships in Washington during the five
and one-half years before I returned to the Law School. A surprisingly
large number of wartime Washingtonians settled here or returned here
later.

Going back to the Law School in mid-1946 was a weird experience. By
then my class averaged twenty-nine years of age. Needless to say, many
were married and a good number had children. We worked harder, if
possible, than before the war. It proved well worth it. The lawyers

448 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

graduated in 1947 were the first available in years and could get ju:
about any type of work they wanted. I managed to find a job with
Wall Street firm which still permitted me to live and work in Washing
ton. I haven't had a boring day since. The interests of such clients a
the New York Stock Exchange, the Chase Manhattan Bank and the Fore
Motor Company cover a lot of ground and provide plenty of lively sub-
jects to explore and problems to solve.

During 1953-54, | took leave from my firm to go with a client, Under-
secretary Nelson A. Rockefeller, to the Department of Health, Educa-
tion & Welfare. Once there, | was taken from him by Secretary Oveta
Culp Hobby to fill in until the various assistant secretaries and commis-
sioners could be found and appointed. Anyone who can should try a
government assignment. Government is a lot more meaningful after
you have been a part of it.

For the rest, I traveled a month each year, generally abroad. My work
week is punctuated with fund raising, American Bar Association tax
committee work, Health & Welfare Council assignments, Harvard Club

and Harvard Law School activities, and occasional Harvard College pro-
jects. For the past five years I have also greatly enjoyed choosing sub-

jects and speakers for, and moderating, a monthly forum on foreign
affairs for the English Speaking Union.

My indebtedness to Harvard is evident to me in about anything I do
or enjoy.

WALTER STEWART GRISCOM, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 46 Astythamantos, Athens, Greece.

OFFICE aDpRESS: Union Carbide Middle East, Lid., 55 Vassilissis Sofias, Athens,
reece.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.; Browne and Nichols School,
Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937, 1938-1939, 1945-1947. pecREE: a.B., 1939(47).
MARRIED: Maria Theile, 1957 (divorced 1960). cusLo: Stewart, Nov. 5, 1957.
OCCUPATION: Sales manager, chemicals and plastics.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Athens Tennis Club.

After a year with Sears Roebuck in Hartford, Connecticut, I entered
the Army in 1941. The following year I completed Anti-Aircraft OCS

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 449

and subsequently spent twenty months in Europe as a battalion adjutant.
This experience included “The Battle of the Bulge.”

In 1947, having obtained my degree, I joined the foreign department
of Union Carbide and have worked for this corporation since that time.
About half of this period has been on foreign assignments, having been
based in Mexico City, Geneva and now Athens.

I married Maria Theile, a Swiss woman, in 1957 and Stewart was born
later that year. We were divorced in 1960. Currently, Stewart is at-
tending school in Athens.

My outside activities include tennis, a little golf and some chess,

REINO RICHARD GRONDAHL

   

  

HOME apprEss: 236 Henry St., Brooklyn 1, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bunge Corp., 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, New York 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEGREE: s.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Keresztury Takats, 1953.

occupation: Import-export; Grain Administration Department, Bunge Corporation
—coordination of export sales with company policies, contractual require-
ments and government regulations.

After graduation I played baseball in Vermont and New Hampshire
with Tom Bilodeau and Art Johns. I volunteered and entered Army Air
Corps in January, 1942; assigned to and flew with the 8th Air Force out
of England, as B-17 bomber pilot in 1943; returned to U.S. in 1944 as
instructor in B-29’s; discharged in 1945 with rank of captain. After this
military service, 1 was at loose ends for a while and tried the commercial
airlines as a career but I found little satisfaction in a non-flying capacity.

I joined the Bunge Corporation in 1951 and have enjoyed working in
the export grain trade since that time. It is a somewhat esoteric business
in that it is not generally in the “public eye,” but the complexity and
competitiveness are demanding and J have found satisfaction with my
work in this important area of our national economy.

I met, wooed and married a native Hungarian, in 1953. 1 have much
to thank this lovely lady for, and the ten years she has been with me
have given a new and deeper meaning and direction to my life.

My political opinions remain left of center. I am for the concept of

450 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

coexistence with the Communist world and the search for all avenue:
that lead to a variable system of peace between them and ourselves. -
am proud to be one who stands forthrightly for the aims of the present
social revolution for racial equality.

In contrast there is one thing that puzzles me — who are these “young
conservatives”? To me, there is a contradiction in terms there and I
blanch at the prospect of eighteen- to twenty-two-year-old “Barry Gold-
waters” invading the Yard.

In the way of sports, golf is my favorite pastime. I have managed to
keep myself in fairly good shape and I hereby challenge Father Johns at
the Reunion to a sprint around the bases, as far as first base.

    

STRESS Te

BERNARD DAVID GROSSMAN

P

tort.
—"

  

HOME appress: 24 Lansing Rd., West Newton, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: L. Grossman Sons, Inc., Braintree 84, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; M.B.A., 1941.

marrieD: Grace Swig, Feb. 21, 1943. catLoren: Richard W., Feb. 17, 1946; Betsy
E., March 11, 1948.

occupaTION: Treasurer and director, L. Grossman Sons, Inc.; treasurer and director,
Grossman Industrial Properties, Inc. .

OFFICES HELD: Director, Home Owners Federal Savings and Loan Association,
Cramer Electronics, Inc., Brandeis University Associates, National Conference
of Christians and Jews, New England Region; former director, Newton
Chamber of Commerce, Newton Taxpayers Association, Brookline-Newton
Community Center; treasurer, Combined Jewish Philanthropies of Greater
Boston — campaign general chairman, 1963; first vice-president, Jewish Me-
morial Hospital; president, Temple Shalom of Newton, 1953-56, Massachu-
setts Bay Lodge, 1959; trustee, Temple Israel, Boston; overseer, Old Sturbridge
Village; member, National Cabinet—— United Jewish Appeal; former mem-

ber, Newton Republican Committee; regional vice-chairman, United Fund
of Greater Boston; chairman of events, Harvard 25th.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Belmont Country Club; Masons.

The unaccustomed retrospection and a little introspection required
to write this Report have left me rather pleased with my life to date.
After College and the Business School, work with the War Production
Board organizing the wartime controls of the housing industry instilled
in me a concern about the threat to our liberties of a powerful and not

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 451

always wise bureaucracy which events of the past twenty years have
done little to relieve.

Like many classmates, I entered the Army in early 1942 as a private.
Four years later 1 emerged as a captain. Before leaving for two years of
Pacific atoll hopping with the Seventh Air Force, 1 was fortunate in
winning a wife, who has been not only a wonderful companion but an
inspiration and a goad to a rewarding way of life. Thanks mainly to her
efforts, our two children, now at the brink of college, have been sources
of great joy to us, A blending of pleasant family life, academic training
at fine schools, and some broadening summer experiences seems to have

iven them solid foundations for worth-while lives of their own.

In 1946 I joined my family in the lumber and building material supply
business based in greater Boston, which now operates forty units in the
Northeast. A secondary occupation has been real estate development
and the revitalization of distressed industrial communities. My work
has had many challenging aspects and has never been dull. It has per-
mitted me to indulge in various enjoyable avocations, Two of these
which have persisted are collection of eighteenth century Americana and
participation in philanthropic endeavors.

If we are to have a better world in the future, we must, I believe, rely
less upon government-enforced social justice and tax-supported social
welfare and depend more upon a widespread and dedicated spirit of
voluntarism which finds its strength in the fundamental precepts of the
world’s great religions. This opinion has led me to deep involvement in
sectarian-supported philanthropies which serve the community at large.
A similar feeling that independent schools are important to our way of
life has made my small efforts for Harvard and the independent schools
in which I’m interested a labor of love.

Being in the Boston area has helped me to keep close ties with many
classmates. My active part in past and present Reunions has added to
the pleasure of each event. With each passing year I have a greater
appreciation of Harvard’s importance in our world society, and a deep-
ening gratitude that it has been an intimate part of my life.

‘JOHN HOWARD GROSVENOR

    

HOME appress: 53 Orchard Lane, Glastonbury, Conn.

452 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

oFFIce ADDRESS: United Aircraft Corp., Main Street, East Hartford, Conn.
PREPARED AT: Bennett High School, Buffalo, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1936-1939. brcREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Mimi Bridgman, Oct. 4, 1941. cHiLpREN: Ann Vincent, May 11, 1943

John Howard, Jr, May 22, 1944 (m. Elizabeth Durfey). cRaNbcHILD: Johr
Michael Grosvenor.

OCCUPATION: Sales engineer, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, Division of United Aircraf:
Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

Finding job opportunities rather scarce in New York and Boston after
graduation, I enlisted in February of 1941, as a private in the U.S. Army.
1 was assigned to Coast Artillery, Harbor Defense of Boston, Fort
Banks, Winthrop, Massachusetts, for nine months prior to receiving a
medical discharge. Shortly thereafter, 1 entered the employ of Pratt &
Whitney Aircraft and I have spent my entire career with the company,
enjoying and participating in the remarkable progress of aviation.

ROBERT MILES GRUBBS

~

  

vce adh east i lita ieee niin

 

HOME appreEss: 18 S, Lake Drive, Red Bank, N.J.
oFFice appress: Brady, Devlin, Grubbs, Lawler & Reid, 141 Livingston St., Brooklyn
-Y.

1,
PREPARED aT: Kimball County High School, Kimball, Nebr.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEGREES: s.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1942.

MARRIED: Marilyn Jeanne Schrank, June 13, 1949. CHILDREN: Jonathan Miles, Nov.
28, 1952; Peter Elliot, Nov. 9, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Partner in law firm; trial attorney in New York Supreme Court and
US. District Courts.

orrices HELD: Professor, New York Law School, part-time for two years during
. Ss.

After graduation from the Harvard Law School in 1942, I enlisted in
the Army and served with the First Cavalry Division from Australia to
Tokyo and received the Bronze Star Medal, Bronze Arrowhead, and
four Battle Stars.

Although I passed the New York bar examination in June of 1942, I
was not admitted to the bar until 1946, after 1 had been a resident of
New York for six months, Since then I have been practising law and
was made a partner in the firm of Brady, Devlin, Grubbs, Lawler, &
Reid three years ago. Our firm of some thirty lawyers specializes in tort

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 453

litigation. I have found trial work thoroughly absorbing, demanding,
satisfying and exhausting. Every suit presents a different challenge, and
with the present court calendars there is no time for monotony. For two
years during the 1950's, 1 was a professor at New York Law School and
taught part time until it began to conflict with court work.

In 1949 I married Marilyn Jeanne Schrank and we have two sons,
Jonathan Miles, aged eleven, and Peter Elliot, aged five. We live in the
vicinity of Red Bank, New Jersey, where we enjoy the seashore, the
country and just being out of the city.

Politically, I am still a Democrat and have served as district commit-
teeman a couple of times, and my wife has served as committeewoman; in
each case, it was the result of a real draft. Three years ago, a Democrat
was elected to the Township Committee for the first time in forty
years; not so much because of our efforts but because of population
growth. I believe the Harvard atmosphere in Washington has been a
healthy change and, in general, has led to a genuine effort to attract out-
standing talent to key positions.

The twenty-five years since Commencement have seen a more rapid
advance of knowledge in the sciences than have all prior centuries.
Socially, however, we are only now, at long last, giving meaning to
some of the noble pronouncements of the past as to the equality and
dignity of man. With the overwhelming instruments of destruction
available, the most pressing necessity appears to be the maturing of man-
kind to avoid annihilation. As I recognize the names of classmates who
are leaders in education, politics, music, dramatics, journalism, medicine,
law, communications, business and the sciences, | am proud to be a mem-
ber of the Class of 1939.

 

[Editor’s Note: See information at end of Individual Records Section.]

454 HARVARD CLASS OF I 939

’ KARL FREDERICK GUTHE

   

wome appress: 1407 Ferdon Rd., Ann Arbor, Mich.
OFFICE abprEss: Zoology Dept., University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
PREPARED AT: University High School, Ann Arbor, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1940:
pH.p., 1951.

MARRIED: Lucy Jane Pollard, June 15, 1946. cHitpREN: Sarah, Nov. 20, 1948;
Carl Christopher, June 5, 1952; William George, May 16, 1954.
occupaTion: Professor of zoology, University of Michigan.

MEMBER OF: Society of General Physiologists; Biophysical Society; Sigma Xi;
Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in scientific journals.

After finishing two years of graduate work in astronomy at Harvard,
I spent the war years as a civilian physicist for the Navy, working to
protect ships against magnetic mines. The job also made it possible for me
to meet and marry a Wave officer. After the war, J returned to grad-
uate work at Harvard, in biology, my original field of interest. When I
finished my doctorate, the best job in my field was back home here in
Ann Arbor. Like my father and grandfather in their day, I am a profes-
sor at Michigan. Most faculty families get around a little more.

Being a professor has advantages and disadvantages. We spent one
very pleasant summer working (?) in Bermuda. More often, my sum-
mers have been free for research under a grant from the National Insti-
tutes of Health to study the mechanism of muscle contraction, one of
the more interesting and baffling problems in biology today. A dis-
advantage is the chore of teaching an ever-growing number of students;
our enrolment is expected to increase from its present 27,000 to about
45,000 by 1970.

Life in Ann Arbor has been pleasant and uneventful except for the
day in 1959 that the house blew up. A high wind blew down a large
tree in our front yard, tearing loose the gas supply line. The house
filled with gas, exploded and burned down in less than ten minutes. The
Weather Bureau still won’t believe it was a tornado,

The family, lawn care and recreational reading take up what time I
have left after trying to keep up with the rapidly growing field of
molecular biology. My only contribution to the good of the com-
munity is to continue to vote Democratic.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 455

 

HOME ADDRESS: 459 W. 24th St., New York 11, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New York News, 220 E. 42d St., New York 17, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Middletown, R.I.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937.

MARRIED: Jane Menagh, 1938 (deceased); Barbara Goodwin, 1951 (divorced
1953); Nan Bergrud, 1954 (separated 1959). cHILpREN: Ann Katharine (m.
Robert Borg, Feb. 4, 1961) and Michael Wolfe (twins), May 31, 1939;
Nancy Joan Wendy, June 16, 1943; Brian Wolfe, Dec. 10, 1944.

occupaTION: Desk man, New York News.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant, Homestead Valley (Calif.) Fire Department, 1947-50
(volunteer) ; member, Representative Assembly, San Francisco-Oakland News-

paper Guild, 1949-51; member, Guild Negotiating Committee, United Press
contract, 1948.

MEMBER OF: New York Newspaper Reporters Association; National Press Club,
Washington, D.C.; New York Newspaper Guild.

CAREER — (You may call it journalism) has been on a dozen or so
newspapers and two press associations. Three of the papers are defunct,
as is one of the wire services. From 1952 to 1955, I was out of the news-
paper business and making out as a “boat bum,” ie. living at various
landings on the west coast on an auxiliary yawl and making a living
washing down, varnishing, etc., cabin cruisers, as well as operating shore
boats for Navy enlisted men in San Diego. Then I went back to news-
papering in San Francisco, and at the time of our zoth Reunion con-
sidered myself a Californian. Less than six months later found myself
back east following collapse of the paper I was working for then. Have
since renewed my old love affair with Manhattan, particularly down-
town, and am only sorry there are no papers left to work for on Park
Row.

FAMILY — Pretty much grown up. The only one still going to
school, Nancy, writes that it’s pretty tough to explain oneself as an
American to Europeans “and I want to find out why.” We both hope
her current European stay helps answer the question.”

TRAVELS — negligible.

WAR RECORD — No overseas duty. As a Pfe I ran into som
lems— most of them previously chronicled by my betters — of editing
a weekly, the entire staff of which outranked me.

HOBBIES — Mostly singing. Was in the Mill Valley (Calif.) Light

€ prob-

45 6 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Opera Company, subsequent to— and in a much less essential capacit
than — Classmate H. Call. Also Episcopal Church choirs at St. Augus
tine, Florida, San Diego, Mill Valley and Corte Madera, California, an.
St. John’s in the Village, New York City.

CONVICTIONS — None, except that I hope there'll be a good worl
for my hypothetical grand and great-grandchildren. Like no bomb.

    
 

 

§ -

4 x {
ABE | #

HOME appreEss: 202 Wellington Rd., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE apprEss: Department of Defense, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Fort Edward High School, Fort Edward, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; a.M., 1949; PH.D.,
195

    

marniep: Guinevere Kirkland, Sept. 6, 1941. cutpREN: Peter Kirkland, June 29,
1944; Paula Graham, April 3, 1949.

HARVARD SON: Peter Kirkland Haff, 66.
occuPATION: Civilian employee, Department of Defense.
OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Fairfax District, Boy Scouts of America, 1963-64.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.; U.S, Naval Institute; Commander,
US. Naval Reserve.

My association with Harvard continued over nearly an eleven-year
span following graduation. I entered the Law School in the fall of 1939,
transferring to the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences in October of
1940. It was my good fortune to become associated soon thereafter
with the late Professor John D. Black, Henry Lee Professor of Econom-
ics in the Graduate School of Public Administration. 1 served under him
as both a graduate research assistant and private secretary from 1941 to
1942 and from 1946 to 1950, when I finished my doctoral dissertation.
To him more than to any other person, except my father, I am indebted
for the opportunity to complete my graduate training.

In September, 1941, 1 married Guinevere Kirkland (Radcliffe ’go) in
Detroit, Michigan, Classmate John C, Wahlke serving as best man.
After another year at Littauer, I enlisted in the Navy as a Yeoman 3/c
and was assigned to the Japanese Language School in Boulder, Colorado.
The fourteen months spent there were exceptionally interesting and

enjoyable, many close friendships date from those first Navy days in
the Rockies. My wife remained in Boulder, where our son Peter was

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 457

born, while I spent the next two years in the Pacific with the 7th Fleet,
Allied Translator and Interpreter Service, and 7th Amphibious Force as
an interrogator, and with the XXIV Corps in which I served as Japanese
language aide to Lt. Gen. John R. Hodge on Okinawa and later during
surrender negotiations in Korea.

In 1946 we returned to Cambridge and I resumed graduate study. By
1949, shortly after Polly was born, we were on our way to Berkeley
and duties as instructor in economics at the University of California.
The next two years were full, stimulating and rewarding — an experi-
ence that has been difficult to match.

I was recalled to active naval service in 1951 and was assigned to duty
in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations (CNO). Came 1954 and
we decided after much deliberation to remain with the Navy instead of
returning to California and teaching. I became a civilian employee in
the Office of CNO and set about putting down roots for the first time
since leaving for Harvard in 1935. I have remained active in the Naval
Reserve, however, and now hold the rank of commander.

I have spent a lot of time with Boy Scouts since 1952, notably seconded
by a helpful and understanding spouse, being able thereby to combine my
interests in camping, hiking, forestry and the like with a continuing
strong desire to do some teaching and shaping. In 1959 I was the
leader of a group of twenty-seven Explorers on a trip to the Philmont
Scout Ranch in New Mexico for three weeks of mountain hiking.

In 1959 I was selected by the Navy to attend the National War Col-
lege in Washington. The following year, spent with some 135 senior
officers of agencies involved in national and international security
affairs, was a rich and unforgettable experience which passed far too
quickly. In the spring of 1960 | spent three weeks with a section of
the class on an extended trip throughout much of the Far East, that
area of the world which still is of greatest personal interest. In 1961 |
left the Navy and assumed new duties in the Department of Defense
where I’ve been burning my share of the midnight oil.

A couple of years ago we found ourselves in the midst of the college-
selection exercise. After detailed consideration, including extensive
visits to several widely scattered campuses, Peter chose to enter Harvard
where he is now completing his sophomore year. He, too, is an Eliot
House man; his projected field is physics. In another two years the
exercise will be resumed with Polly, Alexandria’s answer to Joan Baez.

Who knows but that she, too, will be Cambridge-bound.

458 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

CLARENCE HAGEN

mer rence pen ao

meee: *.

‘

f 4

£ } 3

e 4: 4

. _ a ‘s
: . % x

RAL NTLEIL LON TMDL E EAE LE,

 

Lad

Home appress: 2008 Ash, Caldwell, Idaho.
OFFICE appRESS: College of Idaho, Caldwell, Idaho.
PREPARED AT: Marysville High School, Marysville, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939, DEcREES: s.B., cum laude, 1939; a.m. (Univ. c
Utah), 1955; pH.p. (ibid), 1957.

MARRIED: Martha Schmidt, July 22, 1940. cHitpreN: David Anders, Aug. 25
1943; Curtis John, July 12, 1945; Brian Grothe, April 12, 1948.

occupation: Associate professor and head, Department of Psychology, College o
Idaho.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi; American Psychological Association; AAAS; N SSE.

I think T have found my niche: a teacher in a small, liberal arts, west-
ern college. Interesting, intelligent students, lots of freedom and space

with no traffic problems, and fine colleagues and administration make
for excellent living.

ROBERT FLEMING HAGERTY

vous sh

  

HOME Appress: 1042 Legare St., Charleston, S.C.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 16 Lucas St., Charleston, S.C.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEAHS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B, 1939,

mARKIED: Mary L, Leffelman, Duke 51, June 4, 1949, cHipren: Richard; John;
Ann; Thomas; Henry.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 459

occupaTioN: Associate professor of surgery (plastic surgery), Medical College of
South Carolina.

Following graduation, the responsibilities of making a living were suc-
cessfully avoided for some fourteen years. These involved five at Johns
Hopkins, two more as a battalion surgeon, four at Duke Hospital as a
surgical resident, and three in the New York area pursuing the intricacies
of a surgical specialty. A wife and five children played their inevitable
role leading to our permanent location in South Carolina.

As the first plastic surgeon in the state, there was much to be done.
Now, ten years later, the situation is unchanged. Well, if it hasn’t been
productive, it has been pleasant. Working in the atmosphere of a
medical school, even a small one, is stimulating. Interests in research can
be pursued in addition to the usual responsibilities of patient care and
teaching.

Activities include shoveling, raking, touch football and, lest that give
the wrong impression, diligent work for a Goldwater victory.

SUMNER HAGLER
mesesnesg FS

    

HOME ADDRESS: 9036 S. Constance Ave., Chicago, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2011 E. 75th St., Chicago, HL.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; m.p. (Columbia Univ.), 1943.

MaRRiED: Nettie Ester Blitz, Oct. 31, 1948. cHmpREN: James Mitchel, Jan. 12,
1950; Howard Jay, Sept. 16, 1951; Jayne Faith, Sept. 18, 1963.

occupation: Physician, private practice of pediatrics.

OFFICES HELD: Associate in pediatrics, Michael Reese Hospital, Chicago.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Pediatrics; American Board of Pediatrics;
Phi Delta Epsilon Medical Fraternity.

PUBLICATIONS: “Acetyl Gantrisin in Pediatrics, A Clinical and Laboratory Study”;
“The Effect of Steroids Administered during Pregnancy upon the Infant.”

I was fortunate in that I knew in early high school that I wished to
enter the field of medicine. My four years at Columbia at the College
of Physicians & Surgeons were among the happiest of my life.

In 1943 1 began a rotating internship at the Mount Sinai Hospital in
New York City. I decided to enter the field of pediatrics and began my
training at this hospital. _ .

During the war | served as a captain in the Medical Corps at various

460 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

posts including Foster General Hospital in Jackson, Mississippi; Lawson
General Hospital in Atlanta, Georgia; and finally Fort Bragg Regional
Hospital in Fayette, North Carolina.

Once discharged from service I completed my studies from 1947 to
1948. These included periods with Dr. Leo Kanner in child psychiatry
at Johns Hopkins, Dr. Arnold Gessell in child development at Yale,
contagious diseases at Willard Parker in New York City, and finally
pediatric allergy with Dr. Lewis Webb Hill at the Children’s Medical
Center in Boston.

I began practice in Quincy, Massachusetts, in 1948. My relationship
with the Children’s Hospital was continued as an assistant in pediatrics,
My next five years were spent developing a practice.

The Korean War led to my recall to military duty to the Air Force.
I was pediatrician in chief at Lowry Air Base in Denver, Colorado,
during most of 1953. We decided to relocate in Chicago, Illinois, my
wife's home, upon discharge from service in 1954. oo

At present 1 am in group practice with three other pediatricians on
the South Side of Chicago, The trend to group medicine is an important
change in American medicine. It is especially rewarding in a demanding
field such as pediatrics. I have definite evenings and weekends that I am
off call, and my colleagues take over. Thus I can spend much time with
my family and plan definitely for social occasions, vacations, postgrad-
uate education, etc.

We enjoy being semi-suburbanites close to a major cultural center
and take advantage of the theatre, opera, symphony and museums as
often as we can. My favorite active sports are golf and swimming. As
a family we are avid spectators at professional baseball, hockey and
football events.

Our elder son, Jim, is in his first year of high school. Howard is in
junior high. Our latest joy is little Jayne, aged three months.

I have always been proud to have had an opportunity to study at
Harvard, In the Midwest this badge of honor appears in even sharper
focus. I am also quietly satisfied and happy to contribute whatever
talents | have to maintaining the health of our children.

ARTHUR EDMUND HALEY

ores ware nape “=

oa x

— aeons
Loo

PS

BH
baal panda ARUBA GA ce Baa OB

 

clash AOE EES

~~ ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 461

HOME ADDRESS: 4 Copley St., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: WEZE, Inc., 10 Arcade, Statler Office Bldg., Boston, Mass. 02116.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: s.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Florence Welling, May 29, 1948. cuiLpren: Thomas N., Dec. 25, 1950;
Ann Marie, June 11, 1952; Paul, June 29, 1959.

OccUPATION: Broadcasting; executive vice-president and general manager, WEZE,
Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Advertising Club of Greater Boston,
Massachusetts Broadcasters Association, Broadcast Executives Club; chair-
man, Boston Chapter, X-FBI Agents; director, Joseph P. Kennedy, Jr. Memo-
rial Hospital; trustee, Hibernia Savings Bank.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Winchester Country Club; Bulfinch Society;
Broadcast Executives Club; Advertising Club of Boston; Sales Executives

Club of Boston; X-FBI Agents Society.

After graduation I went to work and held three temporary jobs (one
as a deep-sea diver tender) until I joined the FBI, as a special agent.
This was an interesting and busy life but not as glamorous as legend
would have you believe. A stint with an aeronautical firm in the labor
relations field was most worthwhile, in that it satisfied me that 1 would
not be happy working for a big firm. At this time (1947) 1 entered the
radio business and have been extrernely happy.

My family life has been my greatest prize. My wife, Florence, and my
three children have been my real assets. We have traveled enough to
add spice to our life, and if we complete two more planned trips we'll
have circled the globe. Community and civic causes have not found our
family wanting, and I must admit that we’ve enjoyed our various partici-

ations.
P My political leanings have been Democratic and will undoubtedly stay
that way since the Republicans seem reluctant to abandon their conserva-
tive viewpoint. I can’t bring myself to believe that our incomes would be
as high if we had had more Republican leadership in the past twenty-five
years.

DONALD RICE HALL

   
   

ET Fa

  

3
+
: < \ ‘

“a C ay
- |

a —

ie
.

8 ane

x

%
ay

HOME ADDRESS: 4524 Briarcliff Rd., N.E., Atlanta, Ga.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 3434 Peachtree Rd., Atlanta, Ga.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass. -

462 HARVARD CLASS OF I 939

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1939, DECREE: A.B., 1939,

marriep: Rosamond L. Smith, Jackson "41, June 28, 1941. cup: Phyllis Marian

Nov. 8, 1942 (m. Stephen Louis, April 15, 1961). cRanpcHILDREN: Davie
Stephen Louis, May 13, 1962; Mark Andrew Louis, May 3, 1963.

occupation: Southern department examiner, Fireman’s Fund Insurance Company

OFFICES HELD: President, Cincinnati Claim Managers Council, 1959; secretary
Colerain Kiwanis Club, 1959, 1960, 1961.

MEMBER OF: Colerain Lodge 759, F. & A.M., Cincinnati; Colerain Chapter 573.
0.E.S., Cincinnati; Tucker Kiwanis Club, Tucker, Ga.

BENJAMIN FISHER HAMILTON

ES Ren eR TLS TMI REE Loe “

        

   
    
  

}

‘~ »
=e

F nN ~ x

q nee, /

HOME abDpress: 39 Kilburn Rd., Garden City, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937. DEGREE: 5.B. (Yale Univ.), 1947.

MARRIED: Dorothy Walsh, June 16, 1940. cuitp: Deborah Ann, June 7, 1947.
occupation: Consulting management engineer.
MEMBER OF: Budget Executives Institute.

In 1937 I left Harvard and became a member of the merchandise train-
ing group of Filene’s Department Store in Boston, while attending
Boston University, C.B.A. in the evenings. In 1940 Dorothy Walsh
(Radcliffe 739) and 1 were married, and the next year we moved to
Connecticut where I was setting up material controls for Chance Vought
Aircraft Company. When Pearl Harbor exploded, aircraft was classified
as an essential industry, and supervisory personnel were locked in place,
so that is where I spent the war years. After V-J Day I entered Yale
School of Engineering full time, receiving my degree in industrial ad-
ministration in June, 1947. My wife, Dorie, had begun teaching during
the war, and she completed her degree work at Yale and received her
A.M. in education also in June, 1947. This is the same month that our
daughter Debbie was born, so we say that all three of us attended Yale
together.

J spent the next four years as assistant to the vice-president of Con-
necticut Railway and Lighting Company in Bridgeport, Connecticut;
then in 1951 | joined Edwards Company in Norwalk, Connecticut, the
manufacturer of signaling equipment including bells, fire alarms and
other visual and audible signaling equipment. As financial control super-
visor and later as manager of plans and controls, I was active in establish-
ing and operating management planning and contro! programs including

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 463

conversion to direct costing, profit planning and budgeting and financial
and production plans and controls.

In 1958 I joined the staff of Stevenson, Jordan & Harrison, Inc., man-
agement consultants and have been happily in management consulting
ever since.

We moved in 1959 to Garden City, New York, on Long Island. Dorie
is now head of the Social Studies Department of Herricks High School
in nearby New Hyde Park. Our daughter, Debbie, now sixteen, is a
junior in the Garden City High School.

We are a very busy and active family, and we all find too little time
to do all we would like to do. My consulting assignments require fre-
quent traveling but I get home at least on weekends, and I see new places,
meet new people and work on new problems which makes consulting
just fine for me.

Dorie is very successful and happy in her teaching career. We had
quite a flurry of excitement the year that she was elected the Teacher
of the Year, complete with magazine write-ups and trips to Washington,
Hollywood, etc. Our daughter, Debbie, is beginning the college search
and is seriously considering a career of teaching in elementary school.

We enjoy living in Garden City, a wonderful New York suburb on
Long Island. The last two summers we have traveled out west and thor-
oughly enjoyed it. Last summer Dorie and Debbie spent the entire sum-
mer in Portland, Oregon, where Dorie was assistant director of a summer
program for history teachers at Reed College. I flew out to join them
for my vacation. Some day we may even live in the West permanently,
it certainly has a great deal to offer.

CHARLES PHILIP HAMMOND

  

   

 

 

SSL SEE SO EE each go
ee ee ee Le

HOME appRESS: 201 Washington St., Marblehead, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Provident Institution for Sayings in the Town of Boston, 36
Temple PI, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREE: 5.B., 1939.

marrieD: Nancy Folger, Oct. 25, 1947. cuioren: Philip Kirk, October, 1948;
Peter Folger, February, 1951.

occupation: Banking; mortgage officer, Provident Institution for Savings in the
Town of Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Steering Committee, Massachusetts Purchasing Group.

464 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

The twenty-five vears since I left Harvard have seen for me the grad

ual evolution into a typical suburban commuter with all the frustration.
and pleasures that go with it,

Back in 1939 when f{ left the College, times were indeed hard and it
was quite difficult for a young man with no particular skills to find any
kind of a satisfactory job. I finally wound up working on the fringes
of the banking business particularly pertaining to real estate mortgages.

Late in 1940, still being young and single and rather bored and dis-
satisfied with my situation and with the prospect of World War II, I
became a commissioned officer in the U.S. Marine Corps. There might
be many words to describe the next four years, but I] don’t think that
1 would ever use the adjective boring. All I can say is that it was cer-
tainly a change of pace from Boston and Cambridge.

At the end of the war, 1 wound up working for the real estate invest-
ment department of the Prudential Insurance Company, where I re-
mained for approximately two years. In the course of these two years,
I was sent hither and yon throughout the New England states. Finally,
an order to transfer to another section of the country that I considered

particularly dismal came along, so that Prudential and I parted company.

My next employer was the Provident Institution for Savings in the
Town of Boston where I am still located. I started work with this ven-
erable old New England institution in a very modest way, and I have been
fortunate enough to work my way up to where I have now become one
of the officers of the bank. 1 find my work most satisfactory and
stimulating.

A great deal of my activities are outside of the bank, and I have also —
been traveling and visiting all parts of the country. This last characteris-

tic of my work has been definitely satisfying. In the first place, it satis-

fies the latent wanderlust which I still have in my blood, and I also meet

Many interesting people in other parts of the country. It is quite im-

portant to a New England Yankee that he realize that people in other

parts of the country sometimes think just a little bit differently.
During the course of this somewhat dull career, I married Nancy

Folger and we have since been blessed with two sons. We lead a quiet

life in one of the suburban towns of Boston. Nancy is an avid gardener,

which means that our house always has an attractive garden. Unfortu-

nately, there is not a single trace of green in my thumb, so that the bur-

den of all this falls squarely on her shoulders. Life has not been without

its mishaps, but all in all it has been a pleasant one.

Sometimes as I buck traffic on the Mystic River Bridge in the morning,

I speculate on how nice it would be to work for a small country bank.
Who knows, sometime I might just do it!

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 465

ROBERT JOSEPH HAMPSON

Bm.

     

HOME ADDRESS: 26550 Woodlore, Franklin, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ford Tractor Division, Ford Motor Co., 2500 E. Maple, Birming-
ham, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Riverside High School, Riverside, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: S.B., 1939; M.B.A., 1941.

MARRIED: Sadie Gravely, Oct. 5, 1946. CHILDREN: Robert Joseph, Jr., Aug. 20, 1947;
Thomas G., June 6, 1949; Christopher B., April 9, 1952; Jane J., July 16,
1954; Nancy D., Sept. 21, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Ford Tractor Division, Ford Motor Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Farm Equipment Institute; chairman, Finance Commis-
sion, Franklin Community Church.

MEMBER OF: Society of Automotive Engineers; Harvard Alumni Association;
Orchard Lake Country Club; Detroit Athletic Club; Economics Club;
Franklin Community Association; Otsego Ski Club.

Immediately after graduation I returned to California to work for
Lockheed Aircraft until I went into the service (U.S, Navy). After the
war I joined Central Finance Staff of Ford Motor Company. My present
position, being a world-wide operation, requires much time and travel
outside the country. We have lived in Franklin for several years now
and are, of course, active in many community activities. I enjoy as much
golf as possible as well as northern Michigan skiing with my whole
family.

CHESTER HANDLEMAN

cnbiaatis

466 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Home appress: Harbour House, Apt. 1219, Bal Harbour 54, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREES: A.B. (Clark Univ.), 1941; ep.m. (Massa-
chusetts State Coll. Fitchburg), 1951; Sixth Year Professional Dipl. in
Education (Univ. of Connecticut), 1957; a.m. (Clark Univ.), 1961.

occrPaTION: Member of faculty (history and political science) in junior college.

OFFICES HELD: National chairman of Alumni Fund Board, Clark University, 1957-

59; at various times, committee member of educational associations on local
and county levels.

MEMBER OF: Level Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Massachusetts Consistory and 32d Degree
Mason; Shrine; Economic Club.

I served in the Army in the Pacific area during World War II; received
four campaign stars and arrowhead (from New Guinea to Admiralties,
Leyte, Luzon, Japan). Since the war, was for a number of years in the
family real estate business. Later received Master’s degree, Sixth Year
Professional Diploma, a second Master’s degree and did further study.
Taught for a number of years on the secondary level and at present (and
during the past few years) am teaching at a junior college (history and
political science).

1 still am connected with the family real estate investments (to some
extent by proxy). [took a pleasant European trip during the summer of
1962 and visited a brother who works there for the U.S. government. I
play the piano whenever I get spare time, and enjoy speaking French to
any French-speaking people in the area. This is an ability which I picked
up during college and post college years.

I have participated to some extent in various community affairs and
projects (mainly in fund-raising campaigns) and lead a moderately active
life. As for domestic and international affairs, I have limited speculations
on such problems in recent years as these matters become more compli-

cated. However, | am always interested very much in these develop-
ments and shall continue to be.

JOHN ROBERT HANDY
® LRT RR RI EY

‘

 

Home appress: Pine Hill, West Barnstable, Mass.

OFFICE ADDKESS: Barnstable, Mavs.; Connecticut General Life Insurance Co., 10
Post Office Sq. Bostun, Mass.

prepanep AT: Western Reserve Academy, Hudson, Ohio; Milton Academy, Milton,
Mass.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 467

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936.

MARRIED: Carolyn Francis, June 22, 1940 (died Sept. 10, 1954); Marjorie Crocker,
Feb. 18, 1955, CHILDREN: Michael Sutton, Aug. 1, 1942 (died Sept. 10, 1954) ;
Louise, June 1, 1944 (m. David Almy, June 15, 1963) ; Martha, April 28, 1949
(died Sept. 10, 1954) ; Heather, Jan. 5, 1956; Sally Ann Lewis, April 15, 1944
(stepdaughter) ; William Lewis, Jr., Oct. 22, 1948 (stepson).

occuPaTION: Life insurance sales — estate planning — field agent.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Town of Marion Finance Board, 1949-52; finance chair-
man, Cape Cod Chapter, Girl Scouts; various yacht club offices; president,
Barnstable Civic Association; member, Cape Cod Planning Board; director,
Red Cross — chairman for funds, members, etc.; various offices in professional
societies, from chapter president to national director, Society for Advancement
of Management; vestryman of church.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Cape Cod and Paris; Barnstable Yacht Club;
Hyannis Yacht Club; National Association of Life Underwriters; Boston Life

Underwriters Association; Industrial and Research Society of Turkey (honor-
ary member).

Twenty-five years ago I looked at the then Reunion Class and won-
dered how such old men had the courage to come so far. Now, ten
minutes later, | am one of that doddering group.

All joking aside, it has been a lot of fun. Sure, life has swung a couple
of low blows that have been hard to take, but all in all, the years have
been good. I spent a number of years as a consulting engineer, working
in this country and in Europe, and had a wonderful ume. Then about
ten years ago I realized that a life that consisted of traveling all of the
time was a pretty poor way to live, all in all, so, with no regrets, |
started all over again. Moved to Cape Cod where I had always wanted
to stay, went into the life insurance business, which had always interested
me, and here I am.

Oh yes—a couple of other changes, too. In 1955 1 married the girl
[had gone around with in college. We both love the Cape and the life
here, which is what makes things worth-while. I seem to keep getting
mixed up in all kinds of things — Girl Scouts, Boy Scouts, United Fund,
and always seem to get involved as a director or officer just about the
time that someone decides that “some work has got to be done.” Have
been president of our Civic Association and have enjoved the peek into
the political arena it gave me. Member of Cape Cod Planning Commis-
sion, a couple of yacht clubs, Harvard Club of Cape Cod and also of
Paris, and an honorary member of Turkish Research and Engineering
Society.

Over the years my philosophy and convictions haven’t changed a
great deal. I suppose that the emphasis and point of application thereof
have, and to a greater extent than | want to admit. Perhaps [ have
come to realize that I can’t change the world, but I haven’t shown any
willingness to quit trying. I believe as strongly as ever that a society
based on governmental handouts plus the “big lie” approach to lite
can’t do anything but fail. Most of all, though, I have become ever

more aware that we can not wait for the “guy across the street” to do it,
for he is waiting for us, too,

468 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

JAMES DAMIAN HANIFY ¢

 
 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 32 Shepard St., Cambridge, Mass. 02138.

ALFRED JAMES HANLON, JR.

   

HOME appress; 213 Dalebrook Drive, Alexandria, Va. 22308.

OFFICE appRESS: Headquarters, U.S. Air Force, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED; Barbara Ann Foster, July 5, 1941. cxipren: Christopher James, Nov.
4, 1942; Brenda Ann, March 20, 1945; Mark Howard, July 2, 1946.

occupation: Colonel, US. Air Force; chief, Threat Assignments Division, Directo-
rate of Estimates, assistant chief of staff for Intelligence, U.S, Air Force.

1 joined the Air Force right after graduation and have been in it ever
since, except for five years after the war when | worked for a manu-
facturers’ representative in Chicago.

My wife and I like people and variety and moving around, which is
perhaps fortunate, because we’ve had a fair share of all three. Not
counting the war years, when I served in England and North Africa
and sundry other garden spots like Clovis, New Mexico, and Pratt,

Kansas, we have had at least a dozen mailing addresses. Omaha, Shreve-
port, Litdle Rock and Morocco all come to mind offhand.

Chris, our elder boy, enlisted in the Air Force a couple of years ago,
after a year at St. Louis University. Our daughter, Brenda, is a fresh-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 469

man at Lake Forest College in Illinois. Mark, the youngest, is a high
school senior currently girding himself for the College Boards in January.
Until the results of this contest are in (probably about the same time as
the New Hampshire primary), Mark is making no rash predictions about
next fall.

The long-winded job title above is Pentagonese for intelligence esti-
mator. Most of the time I find the work interesting, and at times like
the Cuban crisis last fall, it can become downright invigorating.

I am beginning to think about retirement, and possibly teaching, in the
next few years. I have embarked on a series of evening courses in
French and linguistics at Georgetown, which may lead to a Master's
degree by the time I leave the Pentagon in 1966.

Harvard men have not been plentiful in my milieu during the past
twenty-five years, but there do seem to be a few in the Washington
area from time to time. Look us up when you're in town.

VINER HS: ee

JOSEPH OSGOOD HANSON, JR.

 

HOME AppreEss: 3 Randall Ct., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Information Agency, 1776 Pennsylvania Ave., N.W., Wash-
ington, D.C.
PREPARED AT: Asheville School, Asheville, N.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; j.p. (Univ. of
Chicago), 1942.

MARRIED: Madeleine Humm, April 19, 1947. cHILDREN: Joseph Rowland, July 19,
1951; Diana, Jan, 15, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Policy adviser on national security affairs, Office of Policy and
Plans, U.S. Information Agency.

MEMBER: Dacor House; Llinois Bar.

After graduating from law school in 1942, I marched off to the in-
duction station — and marched back again bearing a disconcerting 4-F.
I found my way to the war effort through an intensive Russian course,
leading to a stint with OSS and a Moscow assignment in 1944 and 1945.
This proved to me that foreign affairs is more fun than law.

A second tour of duty at the Moscow Embassy followed in the late
1940's, this time with a new bride and a new job, as editor of Amerika,
the Russian-language magazine published by the U.S. government for
readers in the Soviet Union. This experience revealed to me the chal-

“0 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

lenge in the government's overseas information program and decided n
to stay In it.

Except for one other foreign tour of duty (a year in Greenwich V1
lage while | worked for the State Department in New York) we hav
lived in Washington ever after — and happily. We find it a handsom:
pleasantly relaxed and egalitarian city, rich with unexpected discoveric
of places, people and ideas, My job for the last several years, as advise
on national security affairs in the Office of Policy and Plans of the US
Information Agency, has taken me to new frontiers both intellectual an
geographical — disarmament to Geneva, atomic weapons to Bikini anc
Nevada, the Minutemen to Montana and, in 1963, the “Big Lift” to Ger.
many, and ever again across to that mysterious labyrinth, the Pentagon.

Two pre-eminent satisfactions have come in the recent past: first the
privilege of working here in the years of John F. Kennedy, the new age
of active reason; second, the reward of working with Ed Murrow, a

supremely responsive human being whose warmth brings genius to the
communication of ideas.

My wife and J are political independents who usually find the best
candidate on the Democratic side. We try to combat the anti-family

social forces of today by going back to older, simpler things: church
(Episcopal), music, camping, hiking, skiing.

CLIPSTON STURGIS HARDING

    

HOME ADpRESS: 11 Franklin Sq., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE appRrEsS: Shady Hill School, Coolidge Hill, Cambridge 38, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.; Thayer High School, Winchester,
NH.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1935-1936. Decree: s.B, (Univ. of New Hampshire), 1941.
MARKIED: Barbara Vining Smith, 1941. cHILDREN: Susan Sturgis, April 9, 1943;

Richard Clipston Sturgis, Jr., Jan. 27, 1947; Nancy Greene, June 27, 1949.
occuPATION: Elementary education.

1 looked over what I and several others said at the time of our
Twentieth Report —and all I can say now is, “Things sure are lookin’

”

up.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 471

FRANCIS AUSTIN HARDING, JR.
ey

 

   

HOME ADDRESS: Wilsondale Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Day Gormley Leather Co., 67 Fourth Ave., Needham Heights,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: s.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Edith DeCamp Moffat, Sept. 21, 1940. cuiLpREN: Harriet Moffat, July 7,
1943; Lucy Austin, Nov. 20, 1945; Donald Moffat, Jan. 5, 1949; Edith DeCamp,
Aug. 25, 1952,

OCCUPATION: Salesman and treasurer, Day Gormley Leather Company.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Day Gormley Leather Company.

MEMBER OF: Dedham Country and Polo Club; American Legion; Boston Madison
Square Garden Club; Boston Boot and Shoe Club.

Immediately after leaving college, I spent one last summer working on
a ranch in Wyoming and returned to look for a job. This resulted in a
seven-month trip to South America and back on a seventy-foot schooner.
Then followed marriage and six months employed in the steel business.
I felt strongly that we would be at war in the near future so I volun-
teered for active duty in the Navy as I held a commission in the USNR.
The next six years were spent in the Navy on various ships — patrol
vessels, mine sweepers, a three-masted schooner (Q ship) and finally as
skipper of a Destroyer Escort. I had the good fortune to see only a bit
of actual combat compared to others who served as long, and am now
retired as a commander, USNR. Right after the war I found a job as
salesman in a well-known tanning concern and am still in the leather
business after only one job change in 1957.

It was wonderful to be able to settle down in Dedham and start to en-
joy raising a family, In 1952 we moved to a large old farmhouse with
a lot of acreage in Dover, Massachusetts, I plaved a lot of golf and quite
a bit of ice hockey for several years and still do, but not so seriously and
strenuously. These past years have been happy years, saddened only by
routine sorrows and deaths in our immediate families. Edie and I and
the kids all love sports and outdoor activities in general. We summer on
the Island of Vinalhaven in Maine, where the several Moffat families
have been for years, and spend a lot of time on the water. The place
is jammed with uncles, aunts, cousins, children and friends, and we live
in old clothes and enjoy the fog when it obscures the mainland.

472 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

I travel New England regularly, visiting shoe factories, and Maine is
particular, as the shoe business is mushrooming in that area. Our ows
company is small and closely knit. We represent two well-known tan-
neries in the midwest and we emphasize creative selling as opposed tc
peddling. It is an interesting job, not tied to a desk, even though not as
rewarding financially as some lines of business.

Edie and I get away to Bermuda or some such place only occasionally,
and certainly not often enough. She loves her garden and her painting,
and we are forever working outdoors on the place. Our two eldest
girls are in college and the two younger children in school locally. We
are moderately busy in Town affairs, country club sports and social
activities. She attends church pretty regularly and I very seldom, I am

ashamed to say, as Sunday mornings the grass always needs to be cut
either with a golf stick or the lawn mower. We are staunch Republicans
but do not hesitate to vote otherwise as we see it, and occasionally this
brings on a family quarrel! We go out about once a week for drinks,
dinner, or both, but find, as time goes on, that our social activities are

more and more limited to a close circle of friends, as the kids demand

more of our time — which is fine.

1 feel that Harvard has progressed immensely under its present ad-
ministration, particularly regarding current admissions policies. We
seem to be getting more of the average all-around boy rather than a
strictly scholarly student, and I do not mean this strictly from an athletic
standpoint. Naturally this shows up on our recent athletic achievements,
but I feel that the College at one point was being swallowed up by the
University and the individual lost completely in a pattern of book-

learning and laboratory. “Education,” to my mind, is a proper mixture
of book learning and social relations,

We look forward to our 25th Reunion with so many wonderful
friends,

ROBERT CORNELIUS HARDING +

r ean ea tay wha ete ne

   

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 985 Ash St., Hubbard Woods, Hl,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 473

ROBERT HARE

 

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bristol-Myers International Corp., 34 Dover St. London, W. 1,
England.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937.

MARRIED: Martha Michalis, April 21, 1941. cHrLpREN: Martha Alexandra, Jan. 5,
1943; Margaret Willing, Jan. 23, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president. Bristol-Myers International Corporation; manager of
U.K. and Europe.

FRANK RODERIC HARNDEN

   

HOME Appress: 4510 Ridge Rd., Dallas, Texas 75229.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Braniff International Airways, Love Field, Dallas, Texas.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Margaret Jones, June 24, 1941. cuiprEN: Frank Roderic, Jr., Oct. 24,
1945; Peggy, March 9, 1948; David Edwin, Jan. 30, 1950.

occupation: Airline pilot — captain.

Son, Frank Roderic, Jr., entered Yale, September, 1963, on a Yale Na-
tional Scholarship.

474 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ALAN STEWART HARRINGTON

    

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1136 Madison Ave., New York 28, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Loomis Institute, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. bEGREE: a-B., 1939.

marrieD: Virginia Hannah, Nov. 28, 1941 (divorced 1955) ; Luba Petrova, May 28,
1959. cHiLD: Stephen Alan, Dec. 28, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

MEMBER OF: P.E.N. Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Novel: The Revelations of Dr. Modesto, Alfred A. Knopf, 1955,
also published in the U.K. and the Commonwealth by Andre Deutsch; non-
fiction: Life in the Crystal Palace, Alfred A. Knopf, 1959, also published in
UK. and Commonwealth by Jonathan Cape, Ltd., in West Germany by Econ

(Dusseldorf), and in Japan; articles and stories in Esquire, Playboy, The
Atlantic, The Nation and other magazines.

After graduation I started as a copywriter with the old Cecil and
Presbrey Advertising Agency in New York. From September, 1942, to
January, 1946, I was in the Army Air Force, mostly with the Weather
Service, serving in Newfoundland. I ended as a staff sergeant and the
historian of Arctic Weather Operations.

From 1946 to 1948, 1 was successively a wire service reporter, covering
among other events the Bikini atom bomb tests; a real estate promotion
writer; and a public relations writer. Late in 1948, I decided to devote
full time to completing my first novel —and lived for two years in a
Mexican community near Tucson, Arizona, with my wife and infant
son. Running out of funds, returned to New York, where for the next
four years (late 1950 through early 1954) I was an editor at the Informa-
tion Office of the newly-created Republic of Indonesia.

After completing The Revelations of Dr. Modesto and selling it to
Knopf, I joined the public relations staff of an international oil company.
The novel, a satire on conformity, was under option almost steadily for
seven years for conversion into a Broadway musical. Several adaptations
by various dramatists did not work out. In the fall of 1963, it was
acquired by Wiseman Productions to be made into a film. I have com-
pleted the script, and the film is to be shot in the greater Boston area in
the spring of 1964.

Four years with big, kindly oil company proved frustrating. During
my college years, it was commonly believed that big companies tended
to be harshly exploitive. Two decades later, it seemed to me that many

ha

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 475

great corporations, particularly the oil company for which I was work-
ing, had become almost unbearably decent. With a superabundance of
social justice at his beck and call, the employee could simply coast to re-
tirement so long as he didn’t steal or make a habit of getting drunk. On
the other hand, he pretty well cooled his competitive impulses and be-
came accustomed to functioning as one more member of a committee.
Thus, one fell into a boring paradise. With an apparent lock on security,
I felt that I was slowly turning into a .... This feeling of frustration
impelled me to write an article: “Life in the Crystal Palace,” which
appeared early in 1958 in The Nation. The article described the soft
routine at our place. My signature on the piece was not helpful to the
company career. Fortunately, I received a grant from the Fund for the
Republic and this enabled me to finish a book, Life in the Crystal Palace,
describing how life goes on in the big company environment,

After a brief stint with another corporate giant (electronics), I joined
with two friends in a small public relations operation. This is a far more
satisfying way to live and work than being on salary. I am able to devote
about half of my time to creative work and expect to produce a great
deal more in the years immediately ahead. A current novel in progress
must be finished fairly soon because the action takes place in 1966.

Politically, 1 remain generally speaking a Democrat and glad that the
Kennedy group is in. I think the central problem of our time is not
political but religious. Some kind of new religion must be invented very
soon, in my opinion, to account for our presence on this orbiting bomb.
Absolutely the best book on the subject that I have read is Norman O.
Brown’s Life Against Death.

One source of revelation I believe ought to be explored by many of
us, 1 am speaking of the visions that can be brought to us by chemical
means. This year, once and only once, I volunteered as a subject of an
experiment with LSD, the hallucinating or consciousness-expanding ly-
sergic acid compound. The view of the Cosmos achieved via this extra-
ordinary substance provided an enormously enlightening experience. A
controversial lot has been written about such drugs, and the arguments
I think have been attended by superstitions and prejudice. Without
pretending to know how best these substances can be used, I would like
to stress that they provide stunning insights into one’s own psyche as
well as into the possible nature of things. I hope some way of making
LSD and psilocybin available to more people can be worked out; assum-
ing, of course, that the materials are administered by experienced indi-
viduals who know what they are doing.

I don’t for a moment suggest that life’s problems can be solved by
drugs, but the voyage into inner space can offer information and guid-

ance of value to almost anyone whose physical and mental condition will
permit him to take it.

476 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

BRUCE ALEXANDER HARRIS, JR.

eo

 

   

HOME AbDpReEsS: 90 Tanyard Lane, Huntington, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 25 High St., Huntington, N.Y,

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., 1939; M.D., 1943.

MARRIED: Joan Leigh Maddy, Feb. 2], 1944. cuiLpReN: William Bruce, Oct. 12,
1946; Glenn Ferguson, May 24, 1949; Joan Elizabeth, Nov. 13, 1950.

occuPATION: Physician, specializing in obstetrics and gynecology.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Suffolk County Surgical Society; chairman, Medical
Advisory Board, North Suffolk Planned Parenthood.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; State and County Medical Societies;
Associated Physicians of Long Island; Suffolk Surgical Society; American
Board of Obstetrics and Gynecology; American College of Surgeons; American
College of Obstetricians and Gynecologists; American Society for the Study of
Sterility; Harvard Medical Society of New York; Huntington Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Six papers in various journals on various aspects of obstetrics and
gynecology.

Following graduation I attended Harvard Medical School for four
years, graduating M.D. in 1943. A straight medical internship followed
at the Boston City Hospital, on the I] Medical Service. From 1944 to
1946, I served as first lieutenant and captain in the Army Medical Corps,
visiting England and Italy overseas and being finally separated in Missis-
sippi. During my military service I was married — in Dallas, ‘Texas,

During the next five years we lived the fascinating and poverty-
stricken life of a hospital intern and resident. Our three children were
born during this period. My wife supported me for a good proportion
of the time, hospital salaries being what they are. I trained in obstetrics
and gynecology at Vanderbilt University Hospital, Detroit Receiving
Hospital, Kings County Hospital and Johns Hopkins Hospital.

I started in practice with my father in Brooklyn in 1951. Concur-
rently, I was assistant professor at the State University Medical School.
After three years, I moved to the suburbs (just like everybody else).
Since 1954 I have practised on Long Island. My medical practice has
thrived. I have two associates and an excessive number of nurses, secre-
taries, etc. Because there is no medical school nearby, I have had to give
up teaching, which I deeply regret. Perhaps we shall have a school on
Long Island soon. ;

Jody and I have a very good life. We both play golf (fairly well)

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 477

and we have recently learned to fly, obtained our pilot’s licenses and
bought a Piper Cherokee which we use for short trips. Our three
children are a great joy. They are all reasonably bright, hard-working
and responsible people. Of late they have become delightful compan-
ions as well. I suppose this is the chief pleasure of parenthood.

Iam a great believer in individual responsibility. Like most physicians,
I am a conservative. I suppose this is because we are in a position to
assess the weaknesses of mankind and have become especially aware of
how attractive welfare-statism is to the loafer in all of us. Hard work
and integrity, however, appear to be unfashionable. We are nominal
Protestants, but haven’t been to church for years.

Harvard made me aware of the value of other people’s points of view.
Therefore I have to respect my eldest son’s decision to go to Yale — if
he gets in!

HAROLD HARRIS

   

BoRN: April 10, 1919, New York, N.Y. parents: Nathan Harris, Pauline Schoen-
feld.

PREPARED AT: Townsend Harris High School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.p., 1942.

MARRIED: Mildred Harris. CHILDREN: Jonathan; Paul.
piep: Feb. 10, 1958, New Milford, N.J.

Harold Harris was a member of the law firm of Sargoy & Stein in
New York City, and specialized in motion picture law and in antitrust
actions related to the industry. In 1956 he was elected a Councilman in
New Milford, New Jersey. During World War II he served with the
Army in North Africa, Sicily, New Guinea and the Philippines and
received the Purple Heart. He was survived by his wife and children.

478 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

RALPH HARRIS, JR.

    

HOME ADpRESss: 12] Allerton Rd., Newton Highlands, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 22 Franklin St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., 1939,

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Photo supply business; president, Ralph Harris Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Master Photo Dealers and Finishers Association of
New England, vice-president and director of same, national organization;
chairman, photography committee, Boys Clubs of Boston; president, Frank-
lin Street Associates.

MEMBER OF: Boston Rotary Club; Masonic and Shrine organizations; Great
Books group.

My life seems to consist of the usual work, play, social and commu-
nity activities, and thought; probably in the wrong order and certainly in
the wrong proportion.

The problems of running a small business (camera specialty store) in
these days of bigness, combines and high-pressure promotion absorb
much too much of my time. But at least it represents a very substantial
challenge, and the chance to meet and see constantly lots of people
including many of my classmates.

I like to travel when the chance arises, to take pictures (sort of a bus-
man’s holiday), to read, to enjoy other people’s company. Being a
moderate joiner, 1 am a Rotarian, a Mason, a member of the Chamber
of Commerce. Active in business association fields, I have been president
of the Master Photo Dealers and Finishers Association, New England
Division, vice-president and director of the national group, and am pres-
ently president of the Franklin Street Associates.

As I get older, I am reactivating a deep interest always held in study
of the history of America — not as dead past, but as a living narrative
related to an attempt to understand the very exciting present, and as a
help in measuring the future as it comes,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 479

WALTER WILLIAM HARRIS, JR.

ee

   

  

HOME ADDRESS: 5323 Carvel Rd., N.W., Washington 16, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Helen Rudd Owen, 1940 (divorced 1949); Caroline Long Wadsworth,
1949. cHILD: Mary Isabelle, Oct. 22, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Diplomat.

Following graduation, attended summer session at Northwestern
School of Business Administration; worked a year as a salesman, pri-
marily in the Middle West; thence to production of bombers in Mary-
land; on to Washington as an economic analyst, whatever that is, for
the War Production Board. Went to Algeria, Tunisia and Corsica in
February, 1943, for the Department of State; on loan to the Persian
Government 1944 and 1945; assigned to Baghdad 1946; to department in
Washington, September, 1946, attaché of Embassy, Baghdad, 1947-49;
to Washington 1949; thence attached to Consulate, Cyprus, 1950-52; to
Libya (Tripoli) as Political Officer, 1952-55, to Washington 1955-58;
First Secretary Embassy, Ankara, Turkey, 1958-62; to Washington
1962—present.

_ During brief assignments in Washington, had temporary duty tours
m Saudi Arabia, Yemen, Sudan, Ethiopia, Jordan, Morocco, and several
assorted places that haven’t been invented yet. All as political officer.

Hobby is carpentry, an avocation which has not been particularly
taxing since we have spent the better part of the past twenty years in
treeless areas where the largest bit of lumber is usually to be found in a
match box. °

My wife has been able to keep an excellent household running in
assorted languages; my ten-year-old daughter was fluent in Italian,
Spanish, Arabic and English at age three, but now retains only Turkish,
French, and English, The dog is non-responsive in English and Turkish,
and grins in Spanish. Where he picked up the latter repulsive character-

iste is not known. His political, social and religious convictions are
equally unknown; mine are classified,

480 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

CHARLES STANLEY HARVEY

    

HOME ADDRESS: 1825 B Palmer Ave., Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: McGraw-Hill Book Co., 330 W. 42d St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: New Rochelle High School, New Rochelle, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; a.m. (Columbia
Univ.), 1946.

marnieD: Barbara Joan Chalfant, Oct. 8, 1960.

occupation: Book publishing; editing supervisor, trade department, in charge of
editing of non-technical books.

Upon graduating, to gain funds for entering Teachers College, Colum-
bia, I did surveying work for two years in Virginia and Pennsylvania
for the Rural Electrification Administration. In two years I rose from
rodman to instrument man to chief of party — although not highly
qualified. Examination for the draft disclosed advanced tuberculosis, and
I entered Grasslands Hospital, Valhalla, New York. I was extremely
fortunate in that two years of strict bed rest cured me. After a year’s
additional rest and restricted activities, I entered Teachers College, re-
ceiving an A.M. in the teaching of French and Spanish. Practice-teach-
ing in the high school I had attended taught me that teaching was not
for me: I was too soft-hearted to maintain good discipline, and perhaps
not enough of a scholar. I did, however, enjoy tutoring, of which I did
a considerable amount.

After receiving some vocational testing, I eventually made contact
with the McGraw-Hill Book Company, where I have now been for
sixteen years. As editorial assistant and then editing supervisor, I have
been involved in the editing of perhaps 1200 to 1500 trade (non-tech-
nical) books, including fiction, biography, how-to-do-it, religion and
juvenile. Among these have been The Boswell Papers, The White
House, and You Can Always Tell a Harvard Man. My work involves
contracts with authors, printers, illustrators and designers.

By 1960 I decided I was perhaps no longer too young to embark upon
the sea of matrimony, and I took that fatal step— my wisest move to
date. My hobbies are reading, music (including an opera when possible),
art and antiques. Singing in the tenor row of the choir of the North
Avenue Presbyterian Church has brought me much pleasure.

I believe in the U.S., the rights of all men, and like to think of myself
as an independent liberal.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 481

JOSEPH SPENCE HARVIN

  
  

  
  

HOME AbpREss: 101 E. Manor Drive, Mill Valley, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Veterans’ Administration, 49 Fourth St. San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED AT: R. L. Pascal High School, Fort Worth, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; LuB., 1942.

MARRIED: Donya Donaldson, Aug. 20, 1950. cHILDREN: Joseph Mitchell, Sept. 3,
1953; Robert Donaldson, May 31, 1959.

MEMBER OF: Commonwealth Club, San Francisco; Harvard Club of San Francisco.

HARRY RUSHTON HARWOOD, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 30 Ledgewood Rd., Winchester, Mass. 01890.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Vance, Sanders & Co., Inc., 111 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.
02109.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; M.B.A. 1941.

MARRIED: Anna Hobbs, May 9, 1942. cHILDREN: Walter Hobbs, June 16, 1947;
Regina, March 21, 1949; Martha, Oct. 6, 1954.

occupation: Manager of cashier and securities department, Vance, Sanders &
Company, Inc., sponsor and distributor of shares of five leading mutual
funds — Boston Fund, Canada General Fund, Century Shares Trust, Massa-
chusetts Investors Growth Stock Fund and Massachusetts Investors Trust,

OFFIcEs HELD: Corporator, Suffolk Franklin Savings Bank, New England Deaconess
Hospital; vice-president, Harvard Business School Association of Boston;
secretary, Harvard 39, since 1956; member, Harvard ’39 Permanent Class
Committee, since 1939; member, Finance Committee, Winchester; | member
(elected), Winchester Republican Town Committee; chairman, Board of

.

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

482 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

D s, First Baptist Church, Winchester; past master, H
AF. & “AM: senior warden, Giles F. Yates Council, Princes of Te dge,
chairman, Winchester Advance Gifts, United Fund of Boston, Fase;
director, Winchester Chapter, American Red Cross; Town Meetin Tmerly;
ber (elected), and member, Board of Registrars of Voters, Winenwiem-
chairman, Finance Committee, First Baptist Church, Winchester, Chester.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Eastern Middlesex; Harvard Varsity Ciyh. vw.
chester Boat Club; Republican Club of Massachusetts; Harvard pab Win.
Mt. Horeb Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Boston Lafayette Lodge of Perfection’ cud
F. Yates Council, Princes of Jerusalem ; Mt. Olivet Chapter of Rose * c iles
Massachusetts Consistory; St. Paul's Royal Arch Chapter; Boston Counen:
Royal and Select Masters; St. Bernard Commandery No. 12, Knight of
y ents Temp.
lar; Aleppo Temple.
So much has happened in these twenty-five short years since we yw
. : “ys ere
seniors at Harvard! Vocationally my life began at 41 — 1941 — aft
oe ¢ . er
receiving an M.B.A. from Harvard Business School where I became con-
vinced production was the field for me. After starting with Container

Corporation in Chicago, where my business career was interrupted for

nearly four years while I served as an assistant navigator and radar off.

cer on Navy transports, I moved to Thomas Strahan Company, the wall-
paper manufacturers, for almost ten years in production, purchasing and
as assistant treasurer. Then, shifting to finance and investments, but
still in the operations area, | spent nearly five years as treasurer of the
Suffolk Franklin Savings Bank here in Boston before moving to the
interesting and fast-moving world of mutual funds where I have now
been for almost five years with Vance, Sanders & Company — a far cry
from the production field I was sold on in 1941, but I love it!

In 194z my wonderful married life began. Anna and I as we have
since our children were born, continue to find pleasure in the experi-
ences of our son and daughters in the succeeding phases of life they en-
counter in growing up in today’s world—and are glad we didn’t have

the pressures they are under. (How many of us would be writing for a
Harvard Reunion Report if we had faced the competition our kids
have? ) 7

What little free time there is outside of the office and the responsibil-
ities of the community, church and Masonic activities with which I have
become involved, I put in either in or around the house we built twelve
vears ago. (We feel so fortunate to be able to live in the woods and yet
9e only half a mile from the center of our town of 20,000 where we can
till take any of thirty-nine trains a day for the fourteen-minute ride to
3oston.) However, the longer days of summer do give me the oppol-
unity to sail our turnabout on the local lake. Our club schedules four
aces a week for adults and at least two for the “juniors,” so our Waremia
kept busy!

We still save time, too, for the Cambridge Series of Boston Symphony
yncerts (which we hated to see moved to Symphony Hall from Sanders
heater this year) and an occasional night at the theater where too few
the plays these days seem worth going to see. The other thing we
gularly is to go to Harvard football games, Having had season tickets
r home games since World War II, and not having missed an avy
me cither for several years, we've known the miseries of frst aer
d defeat, but we have had fun being there — especially these, at
ars when we've scen some really good games,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 483

vacations in Maine or on Cape Cod, in Canada, Bermuda or cruis-

O™ The Virgin Islands, have been highlights of these years and pro-
ing 0 ortunities for photography which we have enjoyed working
vided OPT de shows and commentaries for presentation to small groups.

u me all for this purpose was our achievement of our long-planned
Best of seeing the United States and some of Europe as a family.
ies we did in 1962 and 1963, respectively, at a time when each of the

T is was old enough to get something out of it but young enough to be

ic ent ro be with the “old folks.”

Doing things together as a family has provided us with enjoyment and

a very real satisfaction which I believe will continue with us in the years
ro come. In fact, all that life has brought these last twenty-five years —
the experiences of war, the adversities of illness (my wife’s operation for

4 ruptured disc and a spinal fusion and my own thirteen-month bout with
, polio-like virus from which, thankfully, we have both fully recovered),
the richness of a happy family life, and even the daily contacts with a
wide variety of people either through business or social activity — all
this — has helped to give me a more acute awareness of the deeper and
real meaning and purpose of life. I look confidently to the future with
the hope that we, as Americans, yes, as individuals of the Harvard °39
generation, may have a part in bringing peace on earth into being and
making our corner of the world a little better because we have been
there.

For the year ahead I fear there are too few Republicans in Massachu-
setts to win back the state government as I would have it, but I have
brighter hopes for the national scene. The highpoint of the year will be
our one and only 25th, I’m sure. Do come and bring your family so we
can get to know them, too. The dates 7 to 11 sound lucky; may they
start us off on another twenty-five years which will be as wonderful and
peppy, Over all, for each of us as the last twenty-five years have been
or me!

     

41 Afton Drive, Florham Park, N.J,
250 Broadway, New York, N.Y.
Riverdale School, New York, N.Y,
“EGE? 1935-1937, 1938-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1939(40),

 

HOME ADDRESS:
OFFICE ADDRESS:
REPARED AT:
FARS IN cou

484 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

marriepD: Patricia Peters, Sept. 27, 1947. cHmpREN: Mark P., Nov. 1, 1953;
Margaret M., May 7, 1955.
occupATION: Manager, Foreign Credit Insurance Association.

In 1939 I had many plans and thoughts for the future. Practically
nothing came true, and yet it’s been a happy twenty-five years — most
of it I would gladly repeat.

After majoring in anthropology with a teaching career in mind, I
did spend a year combining graduate school (Columbia) and prep-school
teaching (Riverdale). Then into the Navy for a ninety-day commission
under V-7 which extended to five years of active duty at Norfolk and
in the Azores. Duty as a communications officer led to two eventful
years with Trans World Airlines based in Cairo, Egypt, and wandering
on an expense account throughout the Mediterranean and Middle East.
1 also met my charming wife Pat (an airline hostess) who needed a
fourth for bridge while on a night flight between Bombay and Lydda.

Back to the States in ’48 to start a true career in business. Naturally my
anthropological and communication training led me directly into various
positions in sales, administration, market research and credit, and jobs
with Prudential Insurance, Graybar Electric, Aircraft Radio Corporation

and Automatic Switch Company.

Actually this diverse background and experience all fit in perfectly
with my present affiliation with Foreign Credit Insurance Association
(FCIA), a new organization which insures export sales against credit and
political risk. The potential expansion of this business is unlimited.

Having grown up in New York, I was reluctant to move across the
Hudson, but the past fifteen years have proved that Morris County,
New Jersey, is one of the best places to live and raise a family.

Community activity seems to increase with age, leaving less time for
favorite hobbies such as golf, travel and just plain loafing. Also I have
actively supported my wife who is going strong in Republican politics
and someday may end up commuting to Washington.

Recent contacts with 39 Classmates have been few. I hope they increase.

FRANCIS THOMAS HASSETT, JR. ¢

 

LAST MAILING appkess: 94 Carson Ave., Dalton, Mass,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 485

 

HOME ADDRESS: 25 W. 13th St., New York 11, N-Y.
PREPARED AT: Univ. of Chicago High School, Chicago, Ill.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., 1939.
MARRIED: Louise Laurent, Dee. 22, 1945.

occuPATION: Writer; musician.

OFFICES HELD: Conductor, Mozart Festival Orchestra; former trustee, Boston Arts
Festival; former president, Cambridge Art Association.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Composers and Conductors; Musicians Union;
College Music Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Christian Berard, 1950; about 200 articles in journals and magazines.

Except for four years, spent mostly in the Intelligence Service during
World War II, my time since graduation has been concerned with
various cultural activities in music, dance, theatre, art and publishing.

My family consists of a lovely French girl I met in 1939. We have
been to Europe a number of times on business and pleasure. I still play
tennis occasionally.

Generally liberal in politics, 1 feel the world needs more moral con-
viction, and I applaud the work of Pope John.

BOLLING WALKER HAXALL, III

Reo es

  

HOME Aporess: Dodgewood Road, Riverdale, New York 71, N.Y.

486 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

oFFice apprEss: Doremus & Co., 120 Broadway, New York 5, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Portsmouth Priory School, Portsmouth, R.L
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937.
marrieD: Elizabeth Dodge Rainsford, Oct. 1], 1947. cHiLpREN: i
April 2, 1943 (stepdaughter) ; Pauline Dodge. Aug. 19, 1948; Bain ineford.
Jr., Nov. 29, 1949; David Barton, June 28, 195]. , “ts
occupaTIoN: Public relations executive.
OFFICES HELD: President, Riverdale Republican Club, since 1958; member, Re-
publican County Committee, Bronx County. ,
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Down Town Association; Broad Street
Club; Riverdale Yacht Club (commodore 1963) ; New York Financial Writers
Association; Municipal Forum of New York.

pusLicaTions: Daily column, “Tax Exempts,” New York Journal of Commerce,
three years; weekly column, “The Week in Finance,” New York Herald
Tribune, next three years; two pamphlets on municipal bonds.

It is sobering to be asked what you did with twenty-five years of your
life. I have fought a major war, married and have three children and
a stepdaughter whose father died in World War IJ. But, to answer the
question what else have I done, is hard. Too much of one’s life is de-
voted to trivialities for which one is paid.

1 left Harvard after two vears, having run out of money, and went to
work, running newsreel theatres in New York. I then volunteered for
the Armv and served five years, separating as a major. Frankly, I en-
joyed almost every minute of it. I went overseas, wondering whether
I would be afraid when I was shot at. I wasn’t, and I found the war
tremendously interesting and frequently entertaining. Among other
things, I was liaison officer from my division, the 12th Armored, to three
American Corps and two French divisions, particularly the 3rd Algerian
Infantry. These were the famous Goums under General Guillaume. I

ended up having had a fascinating time and a free tour of England,
France and Germany.

After leaving the service, I went to work helping Colgate-Palmolive-
Peet sell soap and left there to join the New York Journal of Commerce.
It was found that I have talent for describing complex financial matters
in simple terms, so I became assistant financial editor and a columnist.
The New York Herald Tribune \iked my style, and I became their in-
vestment banking reporter and columnist.

Four children, a newspaper’s pay scale and a financial editor who was
as voung as I, combined to lure me away from the Herald Tribune into
public relations with Doremus & Company which specializes in financial
and corporate work. And there I am.

In our 20th Anniversary Report, I said that some travel was my cur-
rent ambition. In the summer of 1962, all six of us went to England and
Scotland, losing our hearts to Skye and the Highlands. We now have our
eyes on Italy and possibly Southern France, if everybody stays out of
summer school.

Iam commodore of the Riverdale Yacht Club, a unique organization
— it has no yachts! However, I do become involved with boats in the
summer — inboard, outboard and sail, since we have an island in the St.
Lawrence.

This questionnaire asks about politics and religion. I am president of
the Riverdale Republican Club, and I take a dim view of the present ad-

natn eee sinensis

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 487

ministration. Its conduct of both domestic and foreign affairs has been
notably indecisive and inept. I think that the Peace Corps is its only
success, I am a Roman Catholic, and 1 am most interested in the way
that the Ecumenical Council has spurred almost all Christian religions

toward a more brotherly attitude. This could well be one of the greatest
movements in many centuries. ,

ROBERT HAYDOCK, JR.

    

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Gypsy Trail, Weston 93, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bingham, Dana & Gould, 1 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., 1939; LL.B., 1943 (47).

MARRIED: Gale Miller, Nov. 3, 1951. cHILDREN: Robert, 3d, Aug. 30, 1952; Cale
Sherrard, Sept. 18, 1953; Elizabeth Neville, Dec. 27, 1955; Benjamin Whitney,
Dec. 24, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Counsel for Foreign and Military Affairs, Office of the Secretary of
Defense, 1951-53; member, President’s Clemency and Parole Board for War
Criminals, 1953-55; general chairman, Boston Red Cross Fund Drive, 1957;
co-chairman, 1962 Boston United Fund Campaign; vice-president, Massachu-
setts Council for Public Schools, since 1962; director, Council for Public
Schools, since 1962; director, United Fund, since 1960; director, Boston
Chapter, Red Cross, since 1957; trustee, Milton Academy, since 1960; chair-
man, Friends of Harvard Track, 1961-63; treasurer, Harvard Alumni Associa-
tion, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: American, Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associations; American Law
Institute.

Foremost in the pleasant recollections of the past twenty-five years
come the members of my family. Next comes life as a lawyer which has
fully satisfied my desire for a thoroughly flexible career. It has enabled
me to participate in the drafting of the Uniform Code of Military
Justice and the presentation of the Code to Congress and to sit on the
floor of the Senate with the senator in charge of the bill during the
Senate debate thereon. It has enabled me to participate as a representa-
tive of our government in the negotiations of the NATO Stratus of
Forces Treaty in London and in the negotiations of similar agreements
in Tokyo and Bonn, It has enabled me as a lawyer in the Othce of the
Secretary of Defense to have five years of insight into the process of the

488 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

federal government and to develop admiration for the many able and de-
voted civil servants who, despite some inevitable freeloaders, are re-
sponsible for keeping one of the most complex and enormous organiza-
tions in the world running remarkably well. It has enabled me to work
closely with one of the biggest and best banks in the country and one
of the top newspapers in Boston as well as many other interesting clients.
It has given me a chance to participate in the beginnings of the Uniform
Commercial Code and its adoption by more than half of the fifty states,
to write articles about it, and to lecture on it in various parts of the
country. It has permitted me to become involved in civic activities in-
volving both fund raising and education, including running two major
fund drives in Boston.

Other activities unconnected with the law include four years as a
naval officer during World War II and the development of subsidiary
careers aS a carpenter, house painter, and plumber. With the help of my
wife and children I recently finished building a two-car garage and have
now purchased a small farm near Woodstock, Vermont, which we are
in the process of renovating on a self-help basis. Since our children are
all presently attending public schools, I have served on local education
committees and have participated in thorough studies of the curricula,
faculty recruitment, and salary schedules of our town’s school system. I
am not an overly active churchgoer but have had the fascinating and en-
lightening experience of serving on the committee to find a new minister
for our church. Equally interesting has been participation in the selec-
tion of a new headmaster for Milton Academy.

Working in Boston has given me a chance to keep in close contact
with Harvard. So close, perhaps, that I find myself thoroughly approv-
ing the present management. On the side of Harvard athletics, I have
had fun watching the revitalization of the Harvard track team and the
renewal of the Harvard-Yale, Oxford-Cambridge competition. A cur-
rent track project is the effort to raise $1,000,000 to build a badly needed

indoor track facility. We are half way to our goal. With our own tennis
court and our place in the center of the skiing area in Vermont, the
Haydock family keeps in reasonable trim. I hope the next twenty-five
years are as rewarding as those that have just passed.

DANIEL PEIXOTTO HAYS, II

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 489

HOME appreEss: South Road, Sands Point, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 290 Old Country Rd., Mineola, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935~1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; xtL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1942.
MARRIED: Lucille Sophar, Sept. 28, 1947.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Association of the Bar of the City of
New York; Nassau County Bar Association.

The summer of our graduation I spent working in Wall Street in the
employ of the brokerage firm of Paine, Weber, Jackson & Curtiss. Al-
though it had then become fashionable in Moscow to suppose that all
persons employed in that area were in one capacity or another engaged
in the promotion of the forthcoming war, my activities were no more
nefarious than compiling (inaccurately) at noontime the house equiva-
lent of the Dow Jones averages and doing such research as an attempted
correlation of the extent of patenting by listing firms and their growth
in terms of earnings. My employment terminated August 31st when I
left with the parting words, “apres moi le déluge” (French VI— Pro-
fessor André Morize), by which I referred not so much to the approach-
ing war itself as to the problems of the man charged with computing the
next day’s twelve o’clock average in my place.

As the Army was suffering from an embarrassment of riches, they
decided to save me for a rainy day, and after a brief interlude in the
country I began my courses as a first-year law student. Weary of the
flesh pots of Boston (at that time known as New Sodom), I chose
Columbia rather than Harvard Law School. My career there was un-
eventful; i.e., I received my LL.B. in due course in 1942. I was admitted
to the New York bar in the same year. After that I went to work in
Washington as an enforcement attorney with the Office of Price Ad-
ministration (OGPU). In that capacity I had the opportunity to see
many of the great cities and petty chiselers of the United States. Finally
I got sick and tired of bullying civilians and decided to try more pres-
sure on the Army to get admitted. This time, through the efforts of my
enemies, I got in. My decision to abandon the role of civil servant for
that of a soldier was very moral. I soon realized just how moral it was.
My career in the Army was brief but not uneventful. However, like my
career at law school, it terminated honorably.

When I left the Army I joined the law firm then known as Hays,
Schwabacher, Sklar & Epstein but not for my presence. I was subject to
the usual tyranny which at that time prevailed in such firms. In my
earliest days at the firm I specialized in war regulation, drawing upon
my governmental experience, later I went into general legal research and
brief writing, and finally settled into specializing in estate planning and
administration and related tax work. With respect to the latter, I wrote
substantially all of the taxpayer’s briefs in the precedent-setting gift tax
case Rosenthal v. Commissioner in the U.S, Court of Appeals for the
Second Circuit and in the Tax Court on remand. In these courts the
taxpayer won a stunning reversal of the Tax Court’s first decision against
the taxpayer. The Court of Appeals’ decision drew some acid comment

in a law review note (Yale, I’m glad to sav). The writer worked in our
office during the summer that the appeal was prepared and assisted me

490 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

in preparing it, His note was the only note cited against us in the Tax
Court on remand! Oh, generation of vipers!

I became a partner in the firm in 1957 and thereafter quickly lost
interest. Whoever made his home atop Mount Everest? This sentence
alone should put a big roadblock in front of some other aspiring young
geniuses. Good! It has been my experience that those who make it and
don’t tire become tiresome. Having ascertained that it was being an
organization man that had me tired and not the law itself, | made up my
mind what to do, At the beginning of this year I left the firm and opened
my own office in Mineola, Long Island, near my home in Sands Point.
In making this decision I was fortunate in having the wholehearted co-
operation of my wife, also a graduate of Columbia Law School and a
member of the New York Bar. Lucille was acquired in 1947 through a
rare stroke of good fortune and has occupied a treasured position in our
household ever since and soon, I hope, in my office.

My purpose in opening my own office was to free myself from the
routine that is inescapablv a part of belonging to a large office and to
leave myself free to devote myself exclusively to handling matters of
sufficient intellectual substance to interest me. Between these matters I
devote my time to my own business affairs, and when nothing else is
pressing we like to travel. This year alone we traveled to Mexico, Italy,
Austria, and Germany, with a week in London as well. We drove
through Bavaria, the Schwarzwald, and the ‘Tyrol and the Dolomites.
I am told (by my wife) that I drove like a fiend. And to any of my
dear classmates who may have been pushed off a mountain road by an
overbearing green Mercedes (or to their loved ones), apologies here
and now,

As the Class has been sufficiently indiscreet as to inquire as to my
religious convictions, I will be no less discreet and will answer them.
I recall that formerly two subjects were not considered suitable for
social discussion — plumbing and religion. I shall not discuss our plumb-
ing. As to religion, my requirements are few and simple. It should make
one happy and respectable, if possible. If both are not possible, then

respectable. It should not be divisive nor be a vehicle for either racism
or ethnic chauvinism or isolationism. It would be a sorry thing if re-
ligion could produce nothing more edifying than the school prayer liti-
gation. Far from being excluded from the schools, religion should be
taught there. The idea that freedom of choice of religion depends upon
the suppression of knowledge about it is certainly astounding!

My politics are Republican. I would support either Goldwater or
Rockefeller. But I not only voted but actively worked for Jack’s elec-
tion. I think he has been too inconsistent. I distrust his current infla-
tionary plans. In foreign policy, I think he plays for too high stakes on
hunches. Also, he talks too much,

— | |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 491

HENRY SYDNEY HAYWARD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 195 Marlborough St., Boston 16, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Christian Science Monitor, 1 Norway St., Boston 15, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Winnwood School, Lake Grove, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1932-1933, 1936-1939. DEGREE: A-B., 1939.

MARRIED: Ferne J. Martin, Feb. 24, 1945 (deceased); Elizabeth Warner Howe,

July 28, 1962. cHmpreN: Holly Susan, Feb. 24, 1947; Stephen Henry, June 26,
1949.

occuPATIon: Newspaper editor: overseas editor, Christian Science Monitor.
OFFICES HELD: President, Association of American Correspondents, London;
secretary, Press Club, Tokyo, 1952-53.

MEMBER OF: Reform Club, Association of American Correspondents, Foreign Press
Association, all in London.

My post-Harvard life has been that of a journalist on an international
daily newspaper. I started, fresh from graduation, as a cub reporter on
Boston assignments, then changed to writing — and occasionally deliver-
ing — news broadcasts. A three-year stint in the Navy followed, work-
ing as a typical public relations officer dealing with the local press, chiefly
in Boston. At the war’s end, | married and returned to the Monitor, this
time in the foreign news department. I became assistant foreign editor
i 1948. Then in 1951 I was sent overseas as chief Far Eastern cor-
respondent, living in Tokyo for three years with my wife and children
while covering the Korean War and Armistice, the Japanese Peace
Treaty, election campaigns in the Philippines, the Malayan War, and
way stations.

In 1954 I was assigned to London as bureau chief, remaining there
nearly eight years, during which Britain became very much a second
home. In this post, my work included covering all manner of British
news, including the Suez crisis plus the administrations of three prime
ministers — Churchill, Eden, and Macmillan, In addition, I went to most
of the major international conferences in Geneva, Paris, Berlin and
London during this interval, covering Big Four summit meetings, NATO
conferences, ,F-ast-West foreign minister gatherings, and disarmament
parleys year in and year out. Besides this, there were trips to Moscow,
Athens, Cairo, Cyprus, Rome, Barcelona and the Low Countries, East
Germany and Vienna, Warsaw and Helsinki.

It was a busy, rewarding way of life abroad. My son had been around
the world by the time he was five years old. He and my daughter

492 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

wrestled with a succession of schools in Japan and England, neither ever
attending a school in the United States until they were twelve or thirteen
years old. We treasure the memory of a host of friends in the Diplo-
matic Corps, among government officials of several nations, and in the
International Press Corps. Looking back it was a privilege to have lived
and worked as a foreign correspondent in both the Orient and Europe.
Not every journalist gets a chance to work both ends of the Eurasian
continent.

Two years ago, I was called back to Boston headquarters to become
overseas news editor in charge of all foreign coverage and correspond-
ents. Now, as I wrestle with policy decisions and editorial judgments,
page layouts and deadlines, to say nothing of seeing that the overseas
staff is deployed where the news is when it happens, I sometimes long
for the good old days when filing a couple of cables per day (and ac-
quiring information for same) was my chief responsibility. Fortunately,
my work still takes me from time to time to Washington and overseas,
including a trip to London, Paris, Bonn and Israel] this past year.

Meanwhile, I have found immense happiness in a recent second mar-
riage. And after eleven hectic years abroad, it is fascinating to redis-
cover this country. Most of my traveling is by plane, but I still retain
the boyish enthusiasm for the vanishing passenger trains of one born in
a railroad town. Religion plays a fundamental part in our family life
and has helped widen rather than circumscribe our outlook and our circle
of friends.

To sum up: if I could start college over again, 1 would study history
and literature, not economics. But I would not choose another profes-
sion. Mine has been a one-employer life, not highly paid by Harvard-
graduate standards, but profoundly rewarding in a sense of service and
fulfillment, replete with variety and stimulus. It has given me a very

full twenty-five years.

JOHN JAY HEAR
we roo

    
 

  

ES

ASW Naa ka

  

wom appress: 109 Pleasant St., North Kingston, RI.

orice AvbRESS: Original Bradford Svap Works, West Warwick, R.I.
peepakep AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEAKS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B, 1939,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 493

marRieD: Anne Barrett Walten, May 9, 1942. cuitpReN: Ruth Bailey, April 1,
1943; Stephen Reed, Feb. 2, 1948.

occuPATION: Technical sales representative, special chemical products for paper,
textile and metal industries.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Chamber of Commerce, 1953; president, Main Street
Association, 1963; rear commodore, Wickford Yacht Club, 1963; editor,
Greenwich Bay Power Squadron magazine, 1958-63.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Textile Chemists and Colorists; U.S. Power
Squadrons; U.S. Naval Reserve Research Company 1-2.

After graduation from Harvard I attended the Business School for one
year. Taking a summer job in the Sulloway Hosiery Mills in Franklin,
New Hampshire, I elected not to return to the B-School but to embark
upon my career. World War II brought me into the Navy V-7 Program
and I spent four months at the U.S. Naval Academy where I was com-
missioned ensign in May, 1942. Immediately after getting my gold stripe
I married Anne Barrett Walten of Baltimore, Maryland. Our honey-
moon was four months at Navy Diesel School at Pennsylvania State
College. Less than a year later our daughter, Ruth, was born while I
- was minesweeping off Cape May, New Jersey. It wasn’t long before I

was in the Mediterranean again sweeping mines at Anzio and Southern
France. The end of the war found me enroute to French Indochina
and China for more mine clearance. I was released from active duty
in March, 1946.

We immediately returned to New Hampshire to my pre-war job
which seemed to present a wonderful future in plant management. Our
son, Stephen, was born in New Hampshire. With growing family we
built a new house beside the local golf club and enjoyed a pleasant life
of skiing and golfing. In 1953 my company went into voluntary liquida-
tion after trying vainly to modernize antiquated facilities. Electing to
continue in the textile industry J joined the Cranston Print Works Com-
pany in Rhode Island where I was assistant to the purchasing director in
a multi-plant organization. We bought a large older house on the shore
of Narragansett Bay and promptly were badly damaged by hurricane
Carol. My old love of sailing was the next step in our family recre-
ational life. First we acquired a storm-damaged sloop and now have a
thirty-five-foot auxiliary ketch.

In 1961 another recession in textiles made it necessary to change jobs
once more. This time I found a chance to join a friend in a small chem-
ical concern. Here now I am able to get away from routine desk life
and I spend much time in technical sales and new product development
work. I travel a good deal of the time in New England, New York
State, and part of Canada.

At this point in life I realize that I may not ever attain great financial
wealth, but I find a real satisfaction and incentive in working as a mem-
ber of a small team, Living in New England offers many added fringe
benefits. The education of my children will be formally completed in a
few years and then we must readjust our lives when they go on their
own. I look forward to this gathering of classmates to exchange experi-
ences and philosophies. How did twenty-five years pass so quickly?

494 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

_ JOHN RICHARD HEARN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 719 —~ Rd., New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE appRESS: Galey & Lord, 1407 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1939,

MARRIED: Margaret L. Hughes, Aug. I, 1943. CHILDREN: Michaele Lindsey, Nov.
24, 1944; Virginia Lynn, Nov. 15, 1947; Lisa Lydon, Sept. 20, 1949; Richard
Hughes, “Oct. 5, 1953.

occupation: Textile salesman.

MEMBER OF: Silvermine Golf Club; Lake Club, New Canaan, Conn.

We live a pleasant, placid, uneventful life and have got to the age
when we could prefer that it remain that way. Our eldest daughter has
gone off to Mt. Holyoke, though I warned her it was an old woman’s
home and it reminds you of the passage of time. When the matter of
Harvard Sons getting into Harvard was mentioned recently, my nine-
vear-old son said, “Better face facts, Dad — I’m just not a brain.” Nice
that Harvard people are kind of against dynasties these days.

FREDERICK WILLIAM HECKEL, III

 

Hows appREss: West County Line Road, Barrington, HL.

orvick, appunss: No OW. Ayer & Son, Inc., 135 S. LaSalle St, Chicago, HI.
pinpanep at: Wrightsville High School, Wrightsville, Pa.

YEAHS IN COLLEGE: 1955-1939, DEGREE: AB, cum laude, 1939,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 495

MARRIED: Evelyn Stoddard, July 19, 1940. cHiLpREN: Barbara Stoddard, June 9,
1945; Holiday, April 19, 1947; Frederick William, 4th, Jan. 10, 1953.

occupation: Vice-president, N. W. Ayer & Son, Inc., advertising agency, executive
supervision.

MEMBER OF: Barrington Hills Country Club; Racquet Club of Chicago; Harvard
Club of Chicago; Creve Coeur Club of Peoria.

These have been twenty-five pleasant years spent with one firm, one
family and many friends.

I joined N. W. Ayer & Son in Philadelphia in September of 1939, be-
cause, as my father insisted, it was time to “get going.” Subsequently, I
discovered Ayer was the oldest and one of the largest advertising agencies
in the country.

So, very shortly after I “got going,” I arrived at two permanent points
in my business career. I was a professional advertising man and I lived
in Chicago. I moved there in 1941, quickly recovered from the shatter-
ing experience of green felt hats and matching pocket handkerchiefs,
discovered the bustling charm of the city and its suburbs and am now a
dedicated citizen of mid-America. I became vice-president of N. W.
Ayer in 1958 and continued a business philosophy which allots only a
small share of professional aptitude to New York’s Madison Avenue.

Meanwhile, I married Evelyn Stoddard (1940) of good English stock
and Lexington, Massachusetts, and began my career...a family of
three, Barbara, Holiday and Fritz.

I note here that both careers were somewhat conditioned by extempo-
raneous performances with the War Production Board in Cleveland, as
an Air Force public relations officer in Denver and an OSS agent in
China.

Despite years of a highly competitive business, I have achieved a de-
gree of serenity that is sustained by the society of good friends, the
stimulation of an entertaining family, a little gardening and a lot of golf.

While I will never break seventy without cheating, I do expect to
work at it for a few more years as J enjoy five pleasant acres in suburban
Barrington. My achievement in serenity, however, is also my cross. The
epithet that frequently shatters my off-duty complacency, hurled scath-
ingly through the den door as I follow the doings of the Bears on the
magic lantern, is: How comfortable can you get?!!!

Translated this means, “you lazy slob,” and while the purity of the
original suffers in translation its effect was sufficient to produce this
chronicle of the past twenty-five years. That, plus a very efhicient direct
mail campaign for which I congratulate the authors.

496 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

RICHARD PETER HEDBLOM

 

HOME ADDRESS: 100 Center St., Bay City, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Thomson Corp., 3020 N. Water St., Bay City, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Lake View High School, Chicago, III.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; m.p.a., 1941.

MARRIED: Juliana G. Smith, Aug. 29, 1941. cHipReN: Richard Peter, Jr., March
28, 1942 (m. Nancy Phillips Smith, Sept. 16, 1961); Benjamin Smith,
May 12, 1944,

HARVARD SON: Richard Peter Hedblom, Jr., ’64.

OCCUPATION: President and director, The Thomson Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Credit analyst, National City Bank of Cleveland, Cleveland, Ohio,
1942-44; sales manager, Merchant Box Company, Gloucester, Mass., 1945-49;
marketing director, Peter Gray Corporation, Cambridge, Mass., 1950-54;
president and director, Thomson Electric Welder Company, Lynn, Mass.,
and Bay City, Mich., 1955-62.

MEMBER OF: Young Presidents’ Organization, Inc.; American Welding Society;
American Marketing Association; The Thomson Club; Annisquam Yacht
Club; 1939 Permanent Class Committee; Harvard Business School Associa-
tion; Harvard Varsity Club; Harvard Club of Boston.

In retrospect and in counting my blessings, I’m most proud of my
two young sons. Peter (Harvard 1964) married a lovely girl, Nancy
Smith of Wayland, in 1961, and in tune with the times I’m pleased to
announce my candidacy in 1964 as the youngest grandfather in the Class
of ’39. Ben is a freshman at Boston College, is on the hockey squad and
I think has hitched his wagon to George Owen’s star.

I moved back recently to my native Midwest, after a long sojourn in
New England. The scenery cannot compare with New England’s but
there is a vitality and tempo in life here that go a long way to com-
pensate. In 1962 a group of business associates and I purchased The
‘Thomson Corporation, successor to the old Thomson Electric Welder
Company. Our business is the manufacture of automotive parts and
accessories, and my job seems to be an increasingly absorbing one, thanks
in part to all those cars needed now by the children of my contempo-
raries.

Politically and economically I think the state of the Union, although
imperfect, is sound and will stay so to the extent that the planners and
economists restrain their zeal for controls and taxes, and leave free enter-
prise free to produce the results that underly our present prosperity.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 497

ALBERT HAROLD HELLER, JR. t

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 260 S. Mississippi Blvd., St. Paul 5, Minn.

IRVING JOSEPH HELMAN

    

HOME Appress: 114 Bellevue St., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Nutter, McClennen & Fish, 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; LL.B.,
magna cum laude, 1942.

MARRIED: Belle R. Crystal, Dec. 28, 1941. CHILDREN: Steven Keith, Sept. 22, 1947;
James Roger, May 14, 1951; Mark David, Sept. 30, 1958.

OccUPATION: Partner, Nutter, McClennen & Fish, Boston law firm.

OFFICES HELD: Office of the General Counsel, War Production Board, 1942-43;
law clerk to Chief Judge Calvert Magruder, U.S. Court of Appeals for the
First Circuit, 1943-44; U.S. Army, 1944-46; Assistant General Counsel —
General Counsel, Office of Price Administration, U.S. Dept. of Commerce,
1946-47; law clerk, Mr. Justice Frankfurter, U.S. Supreme Court, 1947-48;
associate — member of firm, Nutter, McClennen & Fish, since 1948: trustee,
Boston Evening Clinic; president, Newton Council of Parent-Teacher Asso-
ciations; officer and director, Microwave Associates, Inc,, Shawmut, Inc.,
Certified Pharmacal Corporation, Diaphragm Industries, Inc. Allied Appliance
Company, Puritan Corporation, Techbuilt Homes, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

When I graduated from college I had a crystal-clear chart of the
course I planned to steer for the next twenty-five years: law school,

498 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

then a modest law practice on my own, specializing in constitutional
and civil rights litigation; a bachelor with a downtown penthouse apart-
ment attended by an oriental houseboy, with the royalties from the his-
torical novels I would dash off in my spare time satisfying this and other
ancillary comforts. In fact, I did go to law school where I met a girl
named “Crystal” and from then on out I seem to have been steered on
a somewhat different course.

Instead of practising on my own, I am surrounded by partners and
associates. The only civil rights arguments that I customarily engage in
are with my sons; instead of a downtown penthouse apartment, I tread
my weary way home to a house on a suburban hill—and while I am
greeted there by our three nonoriental houseboys neither they nor our
domestic attend me; and I have little spare time within which to read a
novel, let alone write one.

But all this really happened during the last sixteen years, the first eight,
except for the marital aberration, were almost on the charted course.
When I graduated from Jaw school in 1942, the Armed Forces were not
yet ready for me and I joined the Office of the General Counsel, War
Production Board, in Washington, where I had the good fortune to learn
the tools of my profession from a group of lawyers’ lawyers, now dis-
tinguished in many ficlds. A year later the Armed Forces once again
decided that they could win the war without me and I accepted an ap-
pointment as law clerk to Chief Judge Calvert Magruder of the USS.
Court of Appeals in Boston. Magruder, C.J.. was a judge’s judge, and
from him I learned the true meaning of the law — not only what it is,
but what it could and should be. My charted course was now right on

arget and was given a push in the right direction when I was offered
and accepted an appointment for the following year as law clerk to
Mr. Justice Frankfurter, U.S. Supreme Court.

There was now much talk of a second front in Europe, and the Armed
Forces finally recognized that they could not win the war without me.
They were right. In a few short months, they made a combat infantry-
man out of me, rushed me to the front, and victory was soon ours. Re-
turned to this country, I finally achieved the status that I had sought
for over two years in the Army, that of a veteran.

I journeyed to Washington, D.C., where I found that I would have to
wait another year if I wanted to ger the Frankfurter clerkship. We de-
cided to stay on in Washington and wait the year out, and I secured

employment with the Legal Department of the Office of Price Adminis-
tration. The turnover was so great that before the year ended I became
General Counsel (probably the last one). I look back fondly to this job
mainly because with it came a permit which entitled me to park my car

practically anywhere tn downtown Washington (if I could only get a
similar job now in Boston!).

My clerkship with Mr. Justice Frankfurter was a year of excitement,
stimulation and learning. The Justice was a professor’s professor and
from him I learned the true place of the lawyer in our society — not only
what a lawyer is, but what he could and should be.

I was now ready to embark upon a career as an associate professor of
constitutional law. It seemed that before returning to the theoretical I
should have some experience in the practical. I entered the doors of

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 499

Nutter McClennen & Fish (originally Brandeis & Warren) some fifteen
years ago intending to get a year’s experience in private practice, and
ever since I have been too busy to even think of leaving.

ROBERT EVERETT HEMPEL

  
  

  

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Wisteria Pl., Syosset, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Neumade Products Corp., 250 W. 57th St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Bennett High School, Buffalo, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938, 1939-1940. pEGREE: a.B., 1939(40).

MARRIED: Yvette Mignon Goudreau, Aug. 22, 1942. cHitp: Robert Everett, Jr.,
May 8, 1943.

occuPATION: Director of development, Neumade Products Corporation, motion
picture equipment manufacturers.

MEMBER OF: Society of Motion Picture and Television Engineers.

HUNTER HENDEE

fs . . 1

 

HOME ApDbREsS: 488 Lakeland, Grosse Pointe 30, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Maxon, Ine., 2761 E. Jefferson Ave,, Detroit 7, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Grosse Pointe High School, Grosse Pointe, Mieh,

YEARS IN COLLECK: 1937-1939. DEGREE: a.B., 1939,

marnikp: Mary Shreve Hayes, Oct. 12, 1940. cHinoren: Richmond Shreve, Jan. 1,
1948; Steven Hunter and Nancy Searle (twins), Sept. 18, 1949,

500 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

occupation: Advertising agency executive; director and senior vice-president in
charge of creative services and account management.
MEMBER OF: Country Club of Detroit: University Club of Detroit.

The older I get, the prouder ] am of Harvard for the academic free-
dom, inspiration and maturity which she provides— not only for her
students, teachers and us fortunate alumni, but for this nation and all
mankind as well.

PRESTON BLAIR HENROTIN +

 

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: Road’s End, Cherry Plain, N.Y.

JAMES ALBERT HERMANN

        

HOME appress: 15B New England Ave., Summit, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 1122, 120 Broadway, New York 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: University High School, Oakland, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1936-1939, DECREE: 8S.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Virginia Elizabeth Ivey, Sept. 29, 1939. cHiLp: Craig Hamilton, April 12,
1947.

occupation: Vice-president, Braun, Bosworth & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Mayor’s Committee to Survey the Needs of the Library,
Summit, N.J.; treasurer, board member, Committee for a New Free Public
Library; financial chairman, board member, Friends of the Summit Free
Public Library.

q
t
Pee Sa cla sa, oa eae oe none a ne hoa ed iL Las

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 5O%

MEMBER OF: Municipal Forum of New York; The Playhouse Association, Inc.,
Summit, N.J.

Basically, my family and I are extroverts. Since the end of World
War II, I have been in the investment banking field primarily as a sales-
man, specializing in the sale of municipal bonds. The rewards from this
business have led to a middle-class standard of living, but not to riches,
which fact disturbs me little. My wife and I move in the circle to which
we aspire in the community in which we reside: she, in the Junior
League, the Women’s Auxiliary of the hospital, a social club, I, in the
Library and other groups. We enjoy good health, good friends, and
have a healthy seventeen-year-old son who aspires to become an elec-
trical engineer. Harvard’s good education, plus diverse interests, have
contributed not a little to this way of life. On occasion (recent years),
winning football and hockey teams from Harvard have also made their
contribution to what is, over-all, an enjoyable and pleasant way of life.

STANLEY WILSON HERZFELD

    

HOME ADDRESS: 2 Pierrepont St., Brooklyn 1, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Puder & Puder, 60 Park PIl., Newark, NJ.
PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; tue. (Yale
Univ.) , 1942.

marrieD: Ruth L. Safran, Jan. 24, 1960. cuitp: Rachel Anne, Nov. 13, 1963.

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, West Brooklyn Independent Democrats, 1962; member,
board of directors, Hebrew Educational Society, 1950-62.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in the Journal of Taxation.

In general I have followed the professional course I envisioned when
I left college. 1 went to law school (Yale), was admitted to the bar,
and have spent substantial periods in both government service and
private firms. The field in which I specialize, taxation, probably would
have repelled me in college, at least it did in law school. The choice
was partly due to chance, and also to the observation that almost every
business transaction of significance involves some knowledge of taxation.
I now have a modest vested interest in its unnecessary complexity, which
is always increased by legislative efforts at simplification. Tax law pre-

502 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

sents, I think, more interesting problems than other more settled fields
of law, but the objectives of tax avoidance are not always so satisfying.

I married four years ago. We live in one of the most pleasant neigh-
borhoods of New York City, Brooklyn Heights, in an apartment over-
looking New York Harbor. The community is alive with special interest
groups and all sorts of local controversy, about housing projects, the
size of the public school, the growth and demonstrativeness of the local
homosexual population, and politics. I became president of the district’s
reform Democratic club and led it to its most disastrous primary defeat.
This has given me more time to watch the shipping in the harbor, and
think of the trips I'd like to take. I enjoy travel despite the limitations
of being a tourist and rarely straying from the customary routes.

My politics in general are New Deal, Fair Deal and the unfulfilled
hopes of the New Frontier. I feel disquiet at our inability to deal with
the persistent problem of several million unemployed and thirty million
people living a marginal existence. In the context of increased auto-
mation and inadequate schooling, the outlook seems to me to be intensi-
fied suffering for those now deprived, to whom too little attention is
paid, and ultimately a crisis for the whole country.

The course of my own life is probably more predictable. I hope to
resist moving to the suburbs, even if I have children, and to continue
practising tax law.

HENRY FOX HEWES

    

4 e°
' I |
di ABA. the.

HOME ADDRESS: 1326 Madison Ave., New York 28, N.Y.

PREPARED aT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937, 1938-1939. pecrEE: s.s. (Columbia Univ.), 1948.

MARRIED: Jane Fowle, Aug. 21, 1945. cHi_pReN: Henry Fox, May 21, 1949; Tucker
Fowle, June 27, 1951; Havelock, March 4, 1955.

occupation: Drama critic, The Saturday Review. .

OFFICES HELD: Drama critic, The Saturday Review, since 1954; executive secretary,
Board of Standards and Planning for the Living Theatre, since 1959; editor,
“The Best Plays Series” (The Burns Mantle Yearbook), since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Drama Critics Circle: The Drama Desk.

puaiications: Famous American Plays of the 1940°’s; The Best Plays of 1961-
1962; The Best Plays of 1962-1963,

Writing a 25th Class Reunion Report makes one feel a little like Peer
Gynt telling the Button Moulder why he shouldn’t be melted down for

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 593

scrap just yet. At this moment my first impulse is to yell, “Go ahead
and melt!” At least that would spare me the pain of further introspec-
tion. Yet since Peer tried to answer, I guess I should, too. For we re-
semble each other in that we are both nonconformists, and both failures
at many things we have tried.

At Harvard for instance, 20,000 hours in Mallinckrodt convinced me
that if I attempted to become a doctor, like my father had, I would be
as much of a failure in that field as I was in chemistry and biology. And
for some reason every other field of study offered by Harvard seemed
to lead to nothing IJ specifically wanted. However, on an extremely
extracurricular basis I acquired an interest in the colorfully irresponsible
field of Jazz, which I couldn’t play myself, and in the glorious make-
believe world of football, which I also couldn't play. I thought I would
write a play about some of my experiences with the vital people I had
met in the jazz world, and after leaving Harvard studied playwriting
for a year at Carnegie Tech’s Drama Department.

My playwriting career was interrupted by the war, and I was called
up in the first draft. I failed to impress anyone with my soldiering, and
ended up as a highly unorthodox technical sergeant in the Air Force.
As the rank implies, I was only technically a sergeant. Actually I was
for all four and a half years of service a private with stripes. At first I
edited a weekly publication which brought home to our real Armed
Forces the importance of the weather factor in war. After the Nor-
mandy invasion, the high command figured I had made my point, and
shipped me overseas to that dangerous North Atlantic base, Kindley
Field, Bermuda. There I was given the task of raising the morale of our
grumbling sunburnt men by editing the camp newspaper. And there,
incidentally, I selfishly took care of my own morale by marrying a
Bermuda girl.

After the war had been won, we returned to New York, where I
staged a couple of jazz concerts at Town Hall and made $13. This was
less than the G.I. Bill offered, so | went to Columbia and got a degree
in dramatic arts. I worked for a while on a play about pro football and
spent quite a bit of time with the New York Football Giants. They
even let me run pass patterns with them at training camp, but since I
weighed fifty pounds less than anyone else they had, I never survived the
first cut. I worked for the New York Times as copy boy, news assistant,
radio and TV listings editor, and staff writer with several by-line pieces
in the Sunday drama section plus one unimportant play review. How-

ever, though working at the Times is very comfortable, it is also a bit
like waiting in line to die. So when the opportunity arose to assist drama
critic John Mason Brown on the Saturday Review of Literature, 1 took
it. When in 1954 John retired from writing weekly essavs on a weaken-
ing theater, I became the drama critic, and the magazine justified the
appointment by removing the words “of Literature” from the cover.
Somehow I have kept the post ever since, and I suspect that it is the
ideal position for a man who has failed at so much himself, that he can
write cruelly about the failure of others.

Anent my other failures, at least the printable ones, I adapted a French
play which ran eleven performances in London. Then as the executive
director of the Greater New York Chapter of ANTA TF instituted the

504 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Matinee Theatre Series, and directed as one of its productions an ex-
perimental version of “Hamlet” with Siobhan McKenna playing the
title role. Siobhan and [ liked it, but it failed to get good notices. As
the executive secretary of the Board of Standards and Planning for the
Living Theatre I have edited check lists on theatre building that have
been widely circulated, widely praised and widely ignored. As a col-
laborator with Tennessee Williams, I have failed to finish a script that
we both think has been well begun. And as the successor to Louis
Kronenberger, my first two years of editorship of the Best Plays Series
(The Burns Mantle Yearbook) has failed to augment its readership ap-
preciably despite the fact that I have put the publishers to the expense
of including a lot of new information about the Off-Broadway theatre,
the Shakespeare Festivals, and the new resident theatre companies in
several other American cities.

I have three sons. Henry (fourteen) is an even stronger nonconform-
ist than I am, and he is currently giving Andover a bad time. And
Tucker (twelve) and Havelock (eight) are at Dalton merrily preparing —
to subvert the prep schools of their choice.

We live in a rundown seven-room apartment filled with books I have
never read, and two television sets (the only way to deal with our chil-
dren’s varying artistic tastes—i.e., “77 Sunset Strip” vs. “The Flint-
stones”). As for marital bliss, I can only say that if my wife divorced
me, I would marry someone just like her only twenty years younger.
All in all I guess you’d have to say that my life has been happier than I
remotely begin to deserve.

LOUIS HEXTER

   

  

HOME appREss: 3005 Chadbourne Rd., Shaker Heights, Ohio 44120.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 12728 Woodland Ave., Cleveland, Ohio 44120.

PREPARED AT: Shaker Heights High School, Shaker Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939, DEGREE: 8.B., cum laude, 1939.

marrirp: Ruth Affelder, Sept. 2, 1938 (divorced 1949); Enid Susan Silverman,
March 17, 1950, cHmpxen; Michael L., April 21, 1942 (m. Nancy Linda
Fuerst, Sept. 1, 1963); John B., May 24, 1945; Ralph J., Aug. 25, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Sales representative in graphic arts field, envelopes, printing, engrav-
ing and business printing of all types.

I was married just prior to my senior year and came out of college

suttaak UbliRUIL wi

 Sapnaea dia

x

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 505
with many responsibilities but no job. After graduation I became affiliat-
ed with my father-in-law’s business, which affiliation
and I were divorced late in 1949.

In January, 1950, I began selling for the Specialty Envelope
of Cincinnati, Ohio, and have been with them ever since. Laman
year | married Enid Susan Silverman.

That, in very brief fashion, is my autobiography. Everything else that
has happened has been part of and incidental to those few items. It has
been, unfortunately, a non-academic life, but one which has produced
its share of both personal and business challenges. Perhaps the biggest
of these has been my part in the rearing of three sons. Always a source
of great pleasure, it has been a delight to watch them develop and to
have been able to help in the process. My eldest, Michael, now married
to Nancy Linda Fuerst, is involved in the graphic arts field and is allied
with me in business. My middle son, John, is attending his first year at
Marietta College in Marietta, Ohio, and my youngest, Ralph, is in the
sixth grade, completing his last year of elementary school.

The war years I spent as a civilian, putting in fifteen to eighteen hours
a day, since the War Production Board felt I was worth more to the war
effort where I was than in uniform. Maybe so—TI didn’t agree, then or
now — but couldn’t do anything about it.

I drink very little, smoke too much, read a great deal, and get too
little sleep, and am politically a liberal independent with Republican
leanings, therefore, disliked by both parties, and am mostly appalled by
the recommendations of my Harvard colleagues who are associated
with the federal government and who think they can out-smart and out-
legislate or undo the laws of economics which prevail (apparently with-
out their permission).

I was never a “joiner” before my Harvard days, was not one during
them; and have not changed my pattern since. Rather, I go quietly about
my business, which consumes a great deal of my time, being for the most
part a “one man” operation with a small office staff, and which involves
a good bit of traveling. I find relaxation and recreation in my family,
with my books, around my home, and by participating in such commu-
nity affairs and committees as my limited time allows.

jJasted until my wife

FREDERIC AINSLEY HIGHMAN

SS

506 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Home appress: R.F.D. 4 Narragansett, R.I.

PREPARED AT: Salisbury School, Salisbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Phyllis Gilmore, Oct. 13, 1946. cHILpREN: Henry, July 11, 1950; Mar-
garet. Jan. 15, 1952; John, Sept. 1, 1954; Christopher, April 29, 1958,

occupation: Graduate work, physical oceanography.

MEMBER OF: St. George’s Society of Toronto.

Commanding officer, several auxiliary ships in Caribbean and South
Pacific, 1940-46. Master and mate, coastwise tankers, U.S. Merchant
Service, 1946-48. Supervisor, heavy industry manufacturing and sales,
1948-60. Supervisor, service agency, 1960-61. Graduate work, physical
oceanography, 1961-63.

Autobiographical abstract: Esse quam Videri.

CHARLES AUGUSTUS HILL

   

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Lenox St., Worcester, Mass. 01602.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Crompton & Knowles Corp., 93 Grand St., Worcester, Mass. 01601.

PREPARED AT: Worcester South High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939.

marrieD: Martha Baird Hall, Sept. 18, 1943. campren: Susan Baird, Aug. 3, 1948;
Anne Elizabeth, April 28, 1951; Benjamin Bowker, March 9, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Assistant works manager, Crompton & Knowles Corporation, manu-
facturers of textile machinery, bowling pin-setting machines and packaging
machinery; responsibilities include purchasing, production planning, pro-
duction control, foundry and shop operations, plant maintenance and traffic
control.

OFFICES HELD: Regional vice-president, Associated Harvard Clubs, since 1960;
president, Harvard Club of Worcester, 1959, 1960; board chairman, Worces-
ter County Council on Alcoholism, 1954-55; member, Advisory Board, School
of Industrial Management, Worcester Polytechnic Institute, since 1959; di-
rector, Society for Advancement of Management, since 1962, Worcester
Hahnemann Hospital, since 1963, Worcester County Hearing and Speech
Center, since 1961, Worcester County Council on Alcoholism, since 1952,
Budget Committee, Community Services of Worcester, since 1961, Registered
Professional Engineers (Mass.), since 1948.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester; Worcester Engineering Society; Worces-
ter Art Museum; Worcester Historical Society; Worcester County Mechanics
Association; The Bohemians, Inc.; Worcester Club; Marine Historical Asso-
ciation; Investen Club; Worcester County Republican Club; Friends of
Siurbridge Village; Harvard Varsity Club; Worcester Science Museum.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 597

As preparation for this autobiographical turn, I have just re-read my
comments in our 20th year Report and find that little of real significance
has occurred in my life since that date. For the record, however, I have
gravitated from staff work to line responsibilities in the manufacturing
division of our company and really find myself in a constant rat-race
against the clock and the calendar. Four years ago Martha and I and
the children moved the magnificent distance of about half-a-mile to a
larger and older house here in Worcester where the children have a
chance to rattle around with a bit more freedom and privacy, and from
whence I can continue to enjoy my ten-minute reasonably traffic-free
drive to the office.

Also, my “won’t” power seems to have dulled a bit again, and I find
that I have picked up quite a number of additional minor civic and
community responsibilities which whittle into time that my conscience
tells me I could better devote to doing things with family while J still can.
For the past two years, also, I have done a little club bowling after a
lapse of nearly fifteen years. Gardening and home workshop-type ac-
tivities continue to command a share of my free time as well.

Life continues to slip by at an all-too-rapid rate, and I sometimes feel
like a chip being carried downstream in a rushing current. I find myself
rapidly approaching such milestones as being a college parent and a
grandfather, stations in life which seemingly only a short time ago
appeared far distant.

{ remain active in my associations with Harvard via local Harvard
Club and Associated Harvard Clubs activity, and by following the
fortunes of the Harvard teams as closely as possible. I am well satisfied
with the present trends and policies in Cambridge, and believe that the
Harvard of today is a stronger and better one than the Harvard of 1939.

I continue also to have confidence in the future of the country and
of the world (if not of the Republican Party) and believe that while a
period of tensions and cold wars will remain with us for some time, they
will become lesser rather than greater as time goes on, and that no major
shooting wars will occur in our generation.

I currently have no greater desires or ambitions in life than to con-
tinue in good health and to provide my family with a good home and a
sound preparation for the future, which would hopefully include a
Harvard education for my son.

Best wishes for health, happiness and success to all other r939ers!

508 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

SAMUEL NEILSON HINCKLEY

So RINT A SSE
" £

   

HOME appREss: 1414 Bay Laurel Drive, Menlo Park, Calif.

OFFICE appRESS: 540 California St., San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Helen Pettit, Feb. 5, 1949. CHILDREN: Helen Pettit, May 9, 1950; Samuel
Hamersley, June 17, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Stockbroker.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Union Club and St. Nicholas Society,
New York; University Club, Menlo Circus Club, Inverness Yacht Club, all
San Francisco.

Immediately after graduating I took the summer off and spent several
pleasant weeks on a cruise to the North Cape. Upon my return to New
York I began to search for a job and on the first of the year started at
the bottom of the ladder with Doubleday Doran & Company, publishers.
I stayed with them until the fall of 1941 when there seemed to be more
important things to do, and I went with the Royal Netherlands Pur-
chasing Commission.

I had been trying to fit into the Armed Forces but in their wisdom
they thought it best for me to remain a civilian. I had had a past history
of rheumatic fever which they did not care for. Through Samuel H.
Ordway, Jr., ’21, who had been a U.S. Civil Service commissioner, 1 was
fortunate enough to find an opening with the Commission’s New York
City office. In due course I headed the Commission’s office at the Brook-
lyn Army Base where we supervised over 25,000 Civil Service workers.
Later I transferred to the Navy Department and became the chief of
the Civil Service Personnel Section for the commandant of the Third
Naval District.

Because of ill health I moved to Tucson, Arizona, after the war, and
it was there that I met my future bride. On February 5, 1949, we were
married in a beautiful church that looks out over the foothills of the
Santa Catalina mountains. We moved to Menlo Park which is just south
of San Francisco and have found the area a most pleasant one to live in
and in which to bring up our children.

In 1950 I joined the firm of Harris, Upham & Company, stockbrokers,
as a representative in their San F rancisco office. I have been with them
ever since and for the last two years have been assistant manager. In

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 599

winter I commute to the city each day on the Southern Pacific and in
summer I drive in from our summer place north of San Francisco at
Inverness on Tomales Bay. I find life in the West pleasant and the pres-
sures less. 1 have no regrets that I moved out from the East.

JAMES IRVING HINES

 

HOME appRESss: Im Tobel 15, Feldmeilen ZH, Switzerland.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Brunswick AG, Schifflinde 26, Zurich 1 Switzerland.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, pECREES: A.B., 1939; LLB., 1942.

married: Gloria Van Slyck, July 22, 1946. cHiLpREN: Diana Craig, Aug. 31, 1948;
James Irving, 2d, Oct. 4, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president — European counsel, Brunswick AG (subsidiary of
Brunswick Corporation).

OFFICES HELD: Director, general counsel, New Hampshire Chapter, Jackson
Laboratory Association; member, New Hampshire Constitutional Convention,
1948; selectman, Town of Windsor, N.H., 1948-57; chairman, Windsor School
Board, 1950-56; New Hampshire House of Representatives, 1955, 1957, vice-
chairman, Aviation Committee, 1955, 1957; co-chairman, Republican Finance
Committee, Hillsboro County Towns, 1951; co-chairman, Eisenhower-for-
President, Hillsboro County Towns, 1952-56; chairman, board of trustees,
founder, American International School of Zurich; vice-chairman, Bruns-
wick AG; director, various Brunswick European subsidiaries; Management
Centre/Europe, Brussels, chairman, Seminar on Doing Business in the Com-
mon Market, 1962, 1963, chairman, The Role of the International Lawyer, 1963.

MEMBER OF: American and New Hampshire Bar Association; American Foreign
Law Association; American Society of International Law; American Club of

urich.

510 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

JOHN WATERMAN HINKLEY

OC REET

 

i

  

HOME appreEss: Harding Street, Medfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Liberty Mutual Life Insurance Co., 175 Berkeley St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Medfield High School, Medfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Elinor M. Leonard, Sept. 13, 1942. cuitpren: John Waterman, Jr., Nov.
9, 1943; Frederick Leonard, Sept. 8, 1945; Catherine Ann, Aug. 3, 1950.

occupation: Examiner, property loss claims, Liberty Mutual Life Insurance
Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Medfield P.T.A., 1950; chairman and member, Medfield
School Committee, 1950-53; member, Medfield Finance Committee, 1963;
president, St. Edward’s Holy Name Society, 1960.

After a brief stint as a reporter on a weekly newspaper, I went to work
for Liberty Mutual Life Insurance Company as a claims man. My first
assignment was in March of i940 at the New York City office, where I
learned about work.

1 was drafted into the Coast Artillery i in January of 1941 and was com-
missioned a second lieutenant in December of that year. Served in vari-
ous Coast Artillery Posts and ended up in Fort Lewis, Washington, and
was discharged as a captain in 1946.

I had happily acquired my wife and two sons along the military way
and after discharge returned to Liberty Mutual. We settled in Medfield,
and daughter Catherine joined us. My wife was soon busy in local ac-
tivities and 1 became involved with the School Committe, P.T.A., Little
League, church and other activities usual to a small town.

In 1953 1 was transferred to Chicago and traveled extensively through
Liberty’s midwest division. We enjoyed the midwest, living in a new
community, Park Forest, Illinois. I was transferred back to Boston and
the home office in 1957, We again took up residence in Medfield.

My eldest son is a philosopher at St. John’s Seminary, Brighton, Massa-
chusetts, and the next young man has registered this fall at Michigan
Stare University to undertake studies leading to Doctor of Veterinary
Medicine. My daughter attends the Ursuline Academy in Dedham,
Massachusetts.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT Sit

FREDERICK CLARKE HINMAN

   

BORN: Sept. 5, 1917, Andover, Mass. PARENTS: George Walker Hinman, 798,
Miriam Clarke.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936.
MARRIED: Elizabeth Lewis, Sept. 15, 1946, Madison, Wis. CHILDREN: Edward

Dunning, July 11, 1947; Gary Roger, May 5, 1951; George Walker, 2d,
Aug. 1, 1953.

DIED: Sept. 22, 1955, Madison, Wis.

Frederick Clarke Hinman spent a few months with our Class. He
studied at the University of California, the Sorbonne and Stanford
during service with the U.S. Army. After his war service he studied
political science at the University of Wisconsin. He had nearly com-
pleted work for a Ph.D. when he went into the Civil Service with the
State of Wisconsin in 1949.

RICHARD FRANCIS HIRST +

 

LAST MAILING AbpREsS: 30 New Briar Lane, Allwood, Clifton, NJ,

way
—_
tw

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

JOHN NELSO

  
  

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: Fox Trail Farms, Newtown Square, Pa.

PETER HODSON

  

HOME ADDRESS: 1000 Almanor, Menlo Park, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hiller Aircraft Co., 1350 Willow Rd., Palo Alto, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Montgomery School, Wynnewood, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937.

MARRIED: Lenamae Van Skoik, March 31, 1942 (died Feb. 13, 1958); Audrey Ann
Wolf, March 28, 1958. cHitpren: Peter, Jr., April 26, 1943; Jon Shipman,
June 9, 1948; Jill Annette, Nov. 18, 1950; Jorie Clark, Sept. 25, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Senior design engineer, lead designer, helicopter transmissions and

rives.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers; American Helicopter
Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Fifteen U.S. and more foreign patents; “Influence of Fine Particles
on Corrosion,” Transactions ASME, April, 1955; “Development of High Tem-
perature Electrostatic Precipitator,” and “Use of 5 Spot Blackness Tester on
Flue Gas,” Proceedings Electrostatic Precipitator Seminar, Penn. State Uni-
versity, 1955.

I left Harvard after my second year and entered or wormed (book
variety) my way into the world of engineering. At times it seemed
other fields might have offered greater financial inducement and less
frustration, but my vocational interests were technical and have re-
mained so. | fully expect to continue in engineering until I win the

jae ant baie Mc

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT §13

Sweepstakes. A degree might have made success in this field easier and
perhaps my contributions would have been more world-shaking, but |
doubt that I would have been happier or more content than I am now.

A great deal of my work has been in air pollution control and I have
a number of patents and several published papers on this subject. This
makes me something rare —a Harvard chimney sweep. At other times
I have worked in chemical engineering, metallurgy, thermodynamics, in
addition to mechanical engineering. At present, 1 am designing gears,
drives and transmissions for helicopters. Helicopters are aircraft that
take off and land vertically. Airplanes, also, occasionally do the latter,
but helicopters differ in that if their gears and whirlygigs are designed
correctly there is a reasonable chance that pilot and passengers will
walk away.

I have four children of assorted ages and sexes and one wife of the
right age, etc. My eldest boy, Peter, Jr., is starting his third year at the
University of Virginia. Why not Harvard? He 1s majoring in archi-
tectural history. The University of Virginia has the only degree course
in this field — and he has a partial scholarship there. The next boy, Jon,
is fifteen and a sophomore in high school. Judging from his ability to
argue and his deviousness, he may be destined to become a salesman,
Philadelphia (West) lawyer, or politician. The eldest girl, Jill, thirteen,
is intelligent, pretty, and talented. Who’s prejudiced? She has operatic
ambitions and has paid for her own voice lessons by baby sitting since
she was a mature eleven-year-cld. The youngest, Jorie, just eleven now,
is noted chiefly as cartwheel champion of the greater West—or was
until slowed slightly by a broken arm. Her title has been reduced to
left-handed cartwheel champion of TGW. The keystone of the house
is my wife, Audrey, who strives mightily to keep all of us in order and
everything in its place. Additional residents are Granny, eighty-one, a
dog of small size and uncertain parentage, a Siamese cat with delusions
of cowardice, and two goldfish who eat out of my hand. Piranhas I
haven’t tried yet.

Since 1937 I have seen a fair portion of the world and all fifty of the
States. The furthest point I reached was as an involuntary guest of Uncle
Sam. Navy Seabees. I spent most of three years contending with bore-
dom, bugs, dysentery, Japanese, jungle rot, and malaria in New Guinea
and the Philippines. Having made the islands safe for General Whats-
His-Name and the soap companies, I returned to civilian life with dedi-
cated fervor. While I am obliged now to pay the fare, traveling is more
enjoyable. So far I have visited Scotland, England, Mexico, Colombia,
Ecuador and Peru. I hope to return to South America, in particular
Colombia, where my father has lived for the last twenty years.

The principal hobby I share with my wife is antique collecting. We
consider ourselves discriminating if eclectic in this regard. Someday,
when all fledglings are out of the nest, we may expand our interest to
participation in antique shows or by having a shop of our own.

Socially, politically and religiously, I would class myself as a liberal.
I have ideas and ideals in all three abstractions. I don’t expect them to
change greatly, but I hope to keep them flexible and to continue to learn
as I live. I wish to retain my freedom to do this and I wish to insure
that all others, regardless of status, race, or creed, can do likewise.

514 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HENRY PHIPPS HOFFSTOT, JR.

  

i
i= YO,
tae sl

tw Ke)

HOME aApDRESS: 5321 Wilkins Ave., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15217.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Reed, Smith, Shaw & McClay, Union Trust Bldg., Pittsburgh,
Pa. 15219,

PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; LL.B., 1942.

MARRIED: Barbara S. Drew, April 17, 1948. cHm~pReEN: Thayer Drew, Sept. 8, 1950;
Henry Phipps, 3d, July 26, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner, Reed, Smith, Shaw & McClay, since 1955.

OFFICES HELD: Elder, Shadyside Presbyterian Church; director, Midvale-Heppen-
stall Company, Philadelphia, Pennsgrove (N.J.) Water Supply Company,
North Penn Gas Company, Port Allegany, Pa., Community Chest of Alle-
gheny County, Family and Children’s Service of Allegheny County, Men-
delssohn Choir of Pittsburgh; president, 1957-60, director, Visiting Nurse
Association of Allegheny County.

MEMBER OF: American Law Institute; American, Pennsylvania and Allegheny
County Bar Associations; American Judicature Society; Harvard-Yale-Prince-
ton Club of Pittsburgh; Duquesne Club; Pittsburgh Golf Club; Rolling
Rock Club; Harvard Club of New York; Everglades Club, Palm Beach, Fla.;
Union Interaliée, Paris, France; National Trust for Historic Preservation;
Western Pennsylvania Conservancy; Western Pennsylvania Historic Society;
Carnegie Institute.

Graduated Harvard Law School, 1942. Admitted to the Pennsylvania
bar and the Army, December 7, 1942. Left the Army as a second lieu-
tenant (commissioned in Europe) in 1946 and began practising law, be-
coming a partner in the firm in 1955.

Most of my time and interest are devoted to my family, the law and a
number of civic activities in Pittsburgh. By way of recreation my wife
and J have made six trips to Europe since 1948, the past two with our
children, annual trips to Florida—currently during the children’s
Christmas and spring vacations and a 1962 junket to Wyoming in a
self-propelled mobile home.

7 encteeenstaneensnseenennesnesteneessmemnttitn ng

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 515

SAMUEL GRANT HOLMES

nena Ln mene snag e ameneenen:|

: fe

      
 

 

AR PARLIN RM AIA OMRREDEY. RAILS. SA Bt “et

HOME ApDpREsS: 8906 Burning Tree Rd., Pensacola, Fla.

OFFIcE ADDRESS: 1127 N. Palafox, Pensacola, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Cranbrook School, Bloomfield Hills, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1939. pDECREES: s.B., 1939; mp. 1943.

MARRIED: Dorothea Corinne Marlihan, February, 1944. cHitpren: Samuel Grant,
Jr., July 28, 1949; Corinne Marily, Oct. 8, 1951; Dorothea Alicia, Oct. 28,
1952; Gail Andrea, July 10, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Physician — dermatologist.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of dermatology, 1949, acting head, Dept. of
Dermatology, 1949-50, Medical Branch, University of Texas.

MEMBER OF: Escambia County Medical Society; American Medical Association;
American Academy of Dermatology; Southern Medical Association; YMCA;
‘Hildagos”; “Krewe of Lafitte”; Scenie Hills Country Club.

Inextricably woven into my admiration of myself at Harvard are pain-
ful emotions that even now interrupt this communication with diarrhea,
headache, and tippling. I arrived in my junior year emotionally arrested,
financially insecure and academically retarded; with a picture of myself
as athletically and socially inept. Nevertheless, my neurosis was the cul-
turally boasted obsessive-compulsive; and, out of a frantic need to please
and a fear too intense to fail, Hooton’s anthropologies and the abnormal
psych annex somehow funneled me into Harvard Med, thence to Pedi-
atrics at the MGH, and to an Army tour of European Dermatology, in
the recreational battle fields of the Devon, the Riviera and Bavaria.

Galveston let me share in Frazier’s best Socratic years and in Livin-
good’s vast store of skin lore, whence I settled down in beautiful
Pensacola, to explore its Gulf beach with a happy and healthy family,
and more recently to expand into its forests and onto its golf courses.

The abilities to know myself and to give myself fully to the intense
human relationships of my practice and the fascinating intimacies of my
family have not come easily to me; but rather are the prized fruits of
years of physically tormenting and emotionally torturing psychotherapy.

’ I deem it by far the most important segment of my education and can
only wish that it could precede university for all of us, with its release
of energies and enjoyments.

The insights obtained have profoundly changed my practice of medi-
cine, allowing me to center on the basic anxieties crying out for relief,
rather than to be distracted by physiological dysfunction and physical

516 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

pathology, into which the anxiety has been converted. From the pheno-
thiazines through the anti-depressives, a major effort of the past ter
vears has been invested in broadening my control of psychic pain and its
consequent medical symptomatology, And I am now most encouraged
with our rapidly expanding mastery of that 90% of disease that is psycho-
genically oriented, when the psychochemicals are used vigorously, ti-
trated to full therapeutic control, and not sprinkled on palliatively, as
tranquilizers.

STEPHEN RIGGS HOLMES

ana

“sa

  

HOME ADDRESS: 237 Mt. Pleasant Ave., West Orange, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Holmes Oil Co., Inc., 456 S. Jefferson St., Orange, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1937,

MARRIED: Madeline Brokaw, Feb. 21, 1942. cHILDREN: Stephen Riggs, Jr., Nov.
8, 1942; Cheryl Ann, Aug. 9, 1946; Laurie Lee, Oct. 15, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Holmes Oil Company, Inc., retail fuel oil; president,
Holmes Company, advertising specialties, promotions, incentive programs;
president, Seals, Inc., plastic manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Rotary Club of West Orange; director and past
president, New Jersey Coal Dealers Association; director, past president and
organizer, Crippled Children’s Camp Association, N.J.; director, Chamber of
Commerce of the Oranges; past president, Chamber of Commerce, Orange;
past district governor, District 747, Rotary International; past director,

YMCA; past exalted ruler, Orange Elks 135; past director, Fuel Merchants
of New Jersey; past director-secretary, Garden State Chapter, National Sojourn-
ers; board member, Chamber of Commerce, Boy Scouts, Civilian Defense.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Jersey; No. 205 West Orange, F. & A.M.;
Post 22, American Legion; West Orange Republican Club; B.P.O.E.; Rotary
Club of West Orange; Garden State Chapter, National Sojourners.

My college career was sharply interrupted by an automobile accident
in November, 1937. There ensued hospitalization and convalescence of
about two and a half years. Following this period I took business courses
at New York University School of Business Administration. Rejoined
Holmes Oil Company in late 39. Managed a new coal and oil business
which we acquired and started an air conditioning and storm window
business. December, 1941, became engaged to Madeline Brokaw, a nurse
from Plainfield, New Jersey. February 21, 1942, marriage — spent eight
day's snowbound at Pinehurst en route to Miami.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 517

My hobby had been flying for pleasure four or five times a week at
a nearby airport, so, in June, 1942, 1 volunteered into the Air Force as a
glider pilot. It was interesting and led to travel through Africa, Sicily,
England and France. As a sideline, I helped to run Rest Hotels in Capri,
Torquay, England, and Nice, France. Hospitalized and discharged as
second lieutenant in 1947. Back to the oil business and West Orange,
New Jersey.

Have lived contentedly seventeen years in one house on the mountain
with same wife, God bless her, three children and always a dog. Enjoy
Rotary, Elks and local civic affairs. Live three and a half minutes from
my office. Started plastic manufacturing business and advertising spe-
cialties four years ago. Am tied up heavily in research and will prob-
ably lose my shirt — it’s rather tattered now. However, with my chil-
dren, a darling wife, a good sense of humor and current good health I’m
happy to enjoy a friendly, small time suburban life.

ROGER FELLOWES HOOPER, JR.

   

HOME ADDRESS: Ross, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Roger F. Hooper & Associates, 150 Green St., San Francisco,
Calif.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; B.aRcH., 1948.

MARRIED: Patricia Bentley, Aug. 10, 1946. cHitpREN: Judith Bayard, April 15,
1949; Rachael Bentley, March 16, 1951; Roger Fellowes, 3d, March 25, 1953.

occupation: Architect; partner, Roger F. Hooper & Associates.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of managers, Marin County Branch, San Francisco
YMCA, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Harvard Club of San Francisco;
Langunitas Country Club; Inverness Yacht Club.

Graduation found me in London in the capacity of advance courier
(non-training) for the H-Y track forces — athletically an unsuccessful
effort but a stepping stone to a fine summer in France where war’s onset
caught Bobby Brown and me on the Basque Coast and provided an extra
month’s vacation prior to evacuation and a late start at HGSD. Robinson
Hall was my address for nine years thereafter, including five “on leave
of absence” on various naval stations and ASW small craft — these last
by no means a total loss, since service travel introduced me to the land

518 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

that is my present home and, more important, to the Jady that has darn
mv socks the past seventeen years.

Final achievement of the long-sought B.Arch. in early 1948 was fc
lowed immediately by a long drive to the West Coast, the first draftix
job and a steadily increasing involvement and appreciation of San Fraa
cisco that eventually transformed a temporary experience into permaner
residence. Soon after passing the state exams in r9q9 I joined Adria
Malone, ’37, n a partnership that lasted until his wansplantation to Wyc
ming three years ago. Since that time I have continued the practice wit
two new partners under my own name.

The same years saw a normal succession of rented apartments ane
mortgaged houses, successively more distant from my city offices as the
arrival of progeny had its effect on space requirements and conventiona
suburban values overtook the bohemian in importance. In 1959 a house
for ourselves was finally included in the design schedule, and we car
presumably stay put for a time. In any event I seem by now committed
to the life of the confirmed commuting automaton, oblivious even to
the view from the Golden Gate Bridge as I cross it twice daily.

There is neither space nor need to dwell on the rewards and pitfalls
of professional life. Only my fellow architects can fully appreciate the
delights and frustrations peculiar to the Mother of the Arts— and the
futility of any attempt to express them within the limitation of this occa-

sion and format. Suffice it to say that life is both stimulating and de-
manding, and J can think of no other for which I would exchange it —
or, for that matter, of any place I would prefer to spend it, though the
four million new migrants expected before 1980 may well change this
last opinion, Meanwhile, though the requirements of self-employment
and personal service prove increasingly restrictive to vacation and travel
time, an occasional spell in the high country, plus almost-year-round

tennis and sailing, provides adequate diversion from drawing board and
telephone.

HENRY PRESTON HOPPIN +

 

LAST MAILING ADbHESS: Silvermine Road, New Canaan, Conn.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 519

 

HOME ADDRESS: 27 Coolidge Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Uniform Co., Inec., 18 City Sq., Charlestown 29, Mass.

PREPARED AT; Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Elaine Harriet Barkin, Aug. 6, 1942. CHILD: Richard Allen, Sept. 13, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, sales and administration, Boston Uniform Company, Inc.,
manufacturers and retailers of uniforms.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive board, Brotherhood of Temple Shalom of
Newton, 1963-64; treasurer, Newbrook Associates, 1963.

MEMBER OF: Newbrook Associates.

As I look backward the last twenty-five years present two conflicting
thoughts. On the one hand, it is hard to believe that so much has hap-
pened to me in so short a span; on the other hand, it is difficult to realize
that in this same period few lasting and important achievements have
been accomplished.

My World War II service began with the Navy V-7 program at Notre
Dame and Northwestern Universities. Immediately after receiving my
commission in 1942 Elaine and I were married. As a brand new ensign,
together with several other reserve officers, I was assigned to start a new
amphibious base at Little Creek, Virginia, out of a huge bean patch and
open fields. The base has since been expanded and today is an important
training site.

The Navy soon sent me to sea, and I spent most of World War II
in the Pacific in command of USS LCI (G) 466 and Division 17 (con-
sisting of six rocket firing gunboats). I was awarded the Silver Star
Medal (invasion of Guam) and the Purple Heart Medal (invasion of
Iwo Jima), but the presentation of the Navy Cross Medal in Washington
by James Forrestal, the First Secretary of Defense, was the high point
of my service days.

After the war I went to work for the Boston Uniform Company, Inc.
where I am now treasurer. The business has changed considerably from
when I first joined the company. From almost little or no travel beyond
New England in the late ’40’s and early ’50’s, today my work primarily
consists of traveling through the East, Midwest and Central States visit-
ing colleges with NROTC Units. The continued growth and vitality of
our colleges are clearly emphasized by the extensive building programs
that I see everywhere I go.

520 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

My work is not glamorous and the hours are quite long. However
am practically my own boss, the traveling is interesting and I have be.
making a living.

Politically, | am listed as an independent but like to consider myse
a “moderate” voting for the individual rather than the party. The fai
ure to enact even moderate “progressive” legislation in recent years an
the existence of graft and corruption to such a great degree are annoyin
and disappointing. Having majored in government I find this a mor
passive way of thinking in contrast to my earlier years after graduatio
when I would have been greatly agitated.

Our only child, Richard, is now a senior in high school. He is an ex
cellent companion, doing well scholastically, busy in extracurricula
activities, and a constant source of joy and happiness to us, Our greates
pleasure has been to follow his activities, basking in his many achieve.

ments and awards at this early stage in life. For the past few summer:
Richard has been a junior counselor at a boy’s camp. His several days
off have been spent with us. These get-togethers with their consequent
activities have made our summers most enjoyable. With time on her
hands, Elaine has decided to utilize her Master’s degree and has been
busying herself with occasional substitute teaching at the junior and
senior high school level.

Swimming is still my favorite sport. I used to spend many hours in
the pool of the Indoor Athletic Building and now swim in the warm
waters of Cape Cod where we spend our pleasant summer vacations.
Recently, I have been doing the Royal Canadian Air Force 5BX exercises
in an effort to keep trim. Living in the suburbs [ find that gardening
through necessity and desire has been an easy and pleasant means of
relaxation.

1 am glad that I studied at Harvard and would like my son to do the
same. We are all looking forward to the Twenty-fifth Reunion.

VINCENT CORNELIUS HORRIGAN

 

HOME AND OFFICE AponesS: Xavier University, Victory Pkwy., Cincinnati 7, Ohio.
PREPARED AT: St. Xavier High School, Louisville, Ky.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936.

occuPaTION: Jesuit priest; chairman, Department of Theology, Xavier Uni-
versity.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 521

The gentleman who remarked that he had no children to speak of
was, we suppose, consciously ambiguous. Alas, I must confess straight
out that I gave up hope or fear of offspring when I left Harvard to
become a Jesuit priest, lo, these many years ago.

Not that I am unsurrounded by spirited youngsters of every brand
and proof. I lecture to hundreds of them every year here at Xavier Uni-
versity in Cincinnati in an effort to sharpen their blessed pinheads
enough to poke through the long hardened shell of theology. Or I slip
on my father-mask as 1 act my role of chairman of the Department of
Theology and attempt to solve the much more perplexing problems of
courses, credits, hours, conflicts, done and undone term papers.

Then the intelligent, questing look goes on as 1 become Director of
Forensics and sagely guide the Xavier Debating Teams. Or become the
compleat administer as a member of the board of trustees and try to
vote on thousands and millions while resisting the urge to corner Board-
walk and Parkplace.

As for hobbies. Are you kidding?

So there’s my story of a dull life with no dull moments in it. I have
been at Xavier for eight years now; before that, it was pretty much all
study and training, including three years of study in Europe where I
learned to know and love Europeans rather more than theology, I am
afraid.

Anyway, I’m glad that I decided to send this report along — it brought
back afresh some very fond memories of the Class of 739.

WILLIAM EDWARD HORTON
‘  o& |
7 f |

f
po
1 wh ae

  

rapporariagesreaparmse men
cee Pte
x.
2 ie :

     

HOME ADDRESS: 7533 Mason Dells Drive, Dallas 30, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2521 Willowbrook Rd., Dallas 20, Texas.

PREPARED AT: Brighton High School, Rochester, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: S.B., 1939; M.B.a., 1941.

MARRIED: Edna Marion Laney, Aug. 2, 1944. cHILDREN: Barbara Marion, March
17, 1946; Edward Judson, Jan. 7, 1948; Deborah Laney, July 12, 1952.

occuPATION: Vice-president, manufacturing company.

Greetings to my children, for I am sure they are the only ones who
will be curious enough to read this.

At the conclusion of instruction at the Business School, I rushed into

522 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

the Navy Supply Corps (along with forty other draft-dodgers from
M.B.A. ’41 Class). Had interesting and varied duty in strange parts
the world for over four vears including Western Australia. It was
Australia that I met and married my ever loving wife. (My grea:
achievement was the successful wooing of my bride.)

After a stint in a family automobile retail business in Rochester, N
York, the urge to do something on my own overcame family ties.
moved to Dallas and became interested in a small manufacturing bu
ness which presented all the business problems a B school graduate cov
possibly hope for. For the early years the struggle was nip and tuc
but eventually a sound business emerged which I recently sold to
larger company. Now I am working for somebody else, managing m
former company, among other duties, and find it still an interesting cha
lenge. Manufacturing provides an interesting career and I shall be happ
to continue in this type of work.

Most important in my life has been the discovery of God and workin
through the church to help other people. Our family life has been char
acterized by the demands of three growing children in a typical suburbas
surrounding. Love my children! Dallas is a great city for raising :
family and the Southwest is still a fast growing economic area with many
opportunities available. (Arkansas is a particularly promising area of
good business possibilities and a beautiful state in addition. )

In politics it is interesting to see the growth of the Republican Party

as the conservative group in Texas. Our generation of Southern Demo-

crats is belatedly recognizing the fact that it has little in common with
the Northern Democrats.

For the future, I shall be happy to live in the same general pattern as
long as the Lord is willing.

CHARLES GILBERT HOUGHTON, JR.

é (fe _
a j
oF
# “=~

  

Lit,
he Jf
Home appress: 750 Cella Road, Lande 24, Mo.

oFricy, aviuness: Standard Container Company, 1708 S, Hanley Rd., St. Louis
A, Mo.

PREPARED AT: Morristown School, Morristown, NJ.

YRAKS EN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: $6.8. 1039,

manitinp: Stella Logan Bixby, Dee. 26, 1941. cxitonen: Charles Gilbert, 3d, Aug.
47, 1944; Douglas Bixby, Dee. 28, 1948; Peter Randolph, Feb. 12, 1950.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT §23

HARVARD SON: Charles Gilbert Houghton, 3d, 67.

occuPATION: Partner, vice-president, Standard Container Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, United States Brewers’ Association, 1960-61, Malting
Barley Institute, 1958-61; chairman, Manufacturers & Industry Division,

United Fund, 1958; member, executive committee, Institute of Freedom &
Communism, St. Louis University.

MEMBER OF: St. Louis Country Club; Racquet Club; Milwaukee Country Club.

Following graduation I joined Pittsburgh Plate Glass and was with
them until May, 1941, when I reported for active duty as an ensign
USNR. Married Stella Logan Bixby, St. Louis, December 26, 1941.
After completing approximately five years in the Navy, I settled in St.
Louis and was made sales manager of Cupples Company. I continued in
this capacity until joining Owens-Illinois Glass Corporation in 1950,
with my headquarters continuing in St. Louis. In 1953 1 became western
sales manager of Owens-Illinois with branch headquarters in St. Louis
and reporting branches in Minneapolis, Milwaukee, Chicago, Omaha,
Indianapolis, Louisville and Kansas City.

I continued in this capacity until 1958 when I left Owens-Illinois to
take a position as active head of Froedert Malt Company in Milwaukee,
Wisconsin. The next three and one-half years were one of the most
enjoyable and beneficial experiences of my business activities — assum-
ing the complete responsibility of operating and running what was con-
sidered the largest malt company in the world. One of the most inter-
esting aspects of this position was that it required considerable travel
throughout the United States and many foreign countries. It was with
a great deal of regret that, due to changes in the brewing industry and a
diversification program at Froedert, it was to my personal advantage to
resign this position in April, 1961. In 1950, while working for Owens-
Illinois, I helped form Standard Container Company in St. Louis. 1 was
a director and part owner but did not take an active part in the manage-
ment of this company until I resigned from Froedert and returned to
St. Louis.

The principal portion of our business is packaging, particularly in
folding and corrugated cartons. Recently we have taken a very active
part with Aluminum Company of America and Anheuser-Busch, Inc. in
the development of an aluminum beer can which we feel has excellent
possibilities of eventually replacing the now “old tin can.”

I have taken more than an average interest in the program of the
President, John F. Kennedy; not in the political sense, but primarily as
an observer, interested and sympathetic to his everyday demands and
decisions. Knowing him as a roommate in I-21, Winthrop House, during

this early period of his life, one cannot help but share, if only in theory,
the effects of this office on this individual.

524 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

CHANDLER HOVEY, JR.

    

HOME ADDRESS: Brookville Road, Brookville, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: White, Weld & Co., 20 Broad St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: a.B., 1939,

marrieD: Nancy S. Blumer, Dec. 2, 1939 (died Sept. 5, 1949); Cynthia Burrage
Armour, Dec. 27, 1960. cHitpreNn: Chandler, 3d, Feb. 26, 1941; Thomas B.,
Jan. 25, 1943; Nancy Scott, Feb. 4, 1949,

occupation: General partner, New Business Dept., White, Weld & Company,
banking firm.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of managers, Seaman’s Church Institute of New
York; director, Rio Grande Valley Gas Company and Hope Production
Company, Brownsville, Texas, Midland Insurance Company, New York;
trustee, Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.; past treasurer and trustee,
Miss Stoddart’s School, Locust Valley, Long Island.

MEMBER OF: The Recess; The Links Club; Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht Club;
Piping Rock Club; New York Yacht Club.

Six weeks after graduation saw me starting work with the Boston
Fund, an investment trust; my motive in taking this position was influ-
enced by my impending marriage to Nancy Blumer on December 2d of
that year. By the next November I found myself on active duty as an
ensign in the Navy. During the next five years I served first in the At-
lantic and later in the Pacific, completing my service as commanding
officer of the McGinty, a D.E.

I returned to my previous position in Boston until the fall of 1949
when my wife died. It was then that the children and I moved to New
York where I became a partner in the investment banking firm of White,
Weld & Company. We spent our winters on Long Island where the
children went to school, and the summers until 1956 at North Haven,
Maine. With the children old enough to travel, we spent one summer
out west and the next in Europe. The year 1958 found the whole family
engrossed in the building and campaigning of the Easterner, a twelve-
meter, in an unsuccessful attempt to be chosen as defender of the Amer-
ica’s Cup against the British, Succeeding summers, we continued to race
her, entering the fray again in 1962 without success,

After a very successful campaign I married Cynthia Burrage Armour
on December 27, 1960, and we now have six children between us which
makes life busy, especially during vacations when the house is bulging
at every seam.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 525

Our family is a constant source of pride to Cynthia and me. Bee and
Tom are a senior and sophomore respectively at the University of Penn-
sylvania, while Nancy is still at home for this year. Cynthia’s son, Nor-
man Armour, 2d, 1s at St. Paul’s and her elder daughter, Tania, is work-
ing. Allison is sull with us for two more years I’m glad to say.

I have been very lucky and happy, surrounded by many of my fam-
ily, and I have endeavored to share with the children the joys and re-
wards of a good life.

FORBES HOWAR
FE FO ARO Ta Ora ape LOE

   
 

: J a
b i t %. :
; eta. | i 4

i ig

p oAeY :

i 4

hh auadcah, x

HOME ADDRESS: 360 Mary St., Grosse Pointe Farms 36, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Delman Co., 128 Kercheval, Grosse Pointe Farms 36, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Helen Livingstone, 1948 (divorced 1958) ; Audrie Leclerc, 1959. CHILD:
Lynn, May 3, 1951.

occupaTIoNn: General manager, New Devices Division, Delman Company.

MEMBER OF: Country Club of Detroit; Tennis House, Otsego, Mich.; Harvard
Club of Michigan.

PUBLICATIONS: Several mechanical patents on automotive parts.

DAVID EMMETT HOW

    

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Route’ 1, Henderson, Colo.

526 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

PREPARED aT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937.
MARRIED: Anne McIntosh. Dec. 29, 1939. cHiLpREN: David Emmett, Jr., Nov.

1940; Charles McIntosh, Nov. 13, 1942; Philip Dalton, Aug. 22, 1944; A
H., Jan. 9, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Game preserve operator.
OFFICES HELD: Eisenhower county chairman.
MEMBER OF: Denver Country Club.

(1) 98th Bomb Squadron, rith Group, 7th Air Force, Central Paci
(2) Rancher — Angus cattle and sheep. (3) Game preserve operator.

Have spent my life since the war outdoors at agricultural pursuits a1
have found it very rewarding. At present own and operate Gunne
Mark Game Preserve, brochure enclosed for details of job classificatio:

1am a conservative politically, and naturally think the country is goir
to hell under the present administration. I believe generally along t
lines of editorialist Henry Taylor and cheer his column as he be
expresses my political and fiscal beliefs. The outdoors is my hobby :
well as my business and football my favorite TV subject. I much prefe

the West to the East. My religion is intense and can best be describe
as “outdoor Christian.”

HENRY DUNSTER HOWE

Ere sora gages y

   

HOME appress: 142 Summit Ave., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE appRess: 196 Marlborough St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1936, 1937-1939. pEcREE: D.M.D., 1944,

MARRIED: Eunice P. Simm, Feb. 9, 1946. cHitpren; Eunice Dunster, Dec. 9, 1947;
Maryalice Boardman, March 1, 1950.

occuPATION: Dentist; dental surgeon, Massachusetts General Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, 196 Marlboro St. Trust, since 1946; master, Winslow
Lewis Lodge, AF. & A.M., since 1962; former director, Trinity Place Fund,
American Prismatic Glasses Company, Mid-East Imports; member, Property
and Finance Commission, Church of Our Saviour, Brookline, since 1960.

memeen OF: American and Massachusetts Dental Associations; Harvard Odonto-
Jogical Society; Society for the Advancement of General Anaesthesia in

Dentistry; Harvard Club of Boston;: Longwood Cricket Club; Jackson (N.H.)
Ski & Outing Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Professional articles.

Five years have not changed my life materially, so Tadd these remarks

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 527

as addenda to the Twentieth Anniversary Report. I find I am enjoying
our Jackson, New Hampshire, place more as the years go by. We use
it the year round but particularly during the skiing season. One summer
I spent overseeing the construction of a large pond on the property
which I stocked with trout. Unfortunately, word got around and ice-
fishing was popular in Jackson that winter.

Eunice and I found great pleasure last summer showing our daughters
around Europe for their first time. One daughter attends Winsor School
and one, Beaver Country Day School, but they saw fit to share the same
room on our travels.

Another foray into real estate and duties as master of one of the old
Boston Masonic lodges have occupied me. With an active practice,
various side interests and civic responsibilities, 1 would say there is one

word for the past twenty-five years: BUSY.

CARTER WYCKOFF HOWELL
ITT ponents eres

   

é
SP PUREST
ome
ng
j

  

na tb dite ad hoe

HOME ADDRESS: 1926 Penn Ave., South, Minneapolis 5, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 351 Medical Arts Bldg., Minneapolis 2, Minn.

PREPARED AT: Grinnell High School, Grinnell, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1936. prcREES: a.B. (Knox Coll.), 1939; m.p. (Duke
Univ.), 1943.

mMarRRIED: Elizabeth Rukstad, Dec. 23, 1943. cHtLpren: Carter Wyckoff, Jr.,
March 8, 1947; Elizabeth, June 10, 1948; Sue and Sam G. (twins), March 14,
1951,

OCCUPATION: Medical doctor — surgery specialty.

OFFICES HELD: Clinical instructor, Dept. of Surgery, University of Minnesota,
since 1952; chief of surgery, Deaconess Hospital. Minneapolis, Minn., 1963
and 1964; Beta Beta Pi, 1937; Nu Sigma Nu, 1940.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons (fellow); Hennepin County Medical
Society; Minnesota State Medical Society; A.M.A.; Wayzata Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Pancreatic Duct Filling During Cholangiography: Its Etfect Upon
Serum Amylase Levels,” Master’s thesis, University of Minnesota, June, 1950;
“Pancreatic Duct Filling During Cholangiography.” Gastroenterology, Vol.
16, No. 2, October, 1950; “Penicillin Urethane Solution,” U.S. Naval Hospital
Bulletin, Oakland, California, March, 1951; “Carcinoma of the Panereas and
Ampullary Region,” Surgical Staff Seminars, Minneapolis Veterans Hospital,
Vol. VI, No. 7, April, 1949,

After graduating from Knox College, Galesburg, Illinois, 1 atrended
Duke Medical School in Durham, North Carolina. The vears there were

528 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

both instructive and enjoyable. I received my M.D. in 1943. This was
followed by a nine months’ internship at University Hospitals, University
of Minnesota. The usual twelve months’ internship was not allowed
because of the war.

In December, 1943, Elizabeth Rukstad, a Minneapolis girl, and I were
married. This event marks the high point in my personal history.
Following the chilly ceremonies (December in Minnesota can be rugged)
we departed for San Francisco where I reported for active duty in the
Navy. Up to this point I had been unaware that the Marine Corps doc-
tors were obtained by assignment from the United States Navy, but I
found out shortly and spent the next two-and-one-half years in the South
Pacific, I landed on Guam and Iwo Jima on D-day with the 21st regi-
ment, Third Marine Division, as a battalion surgeon.

Surviving this with extremely good fortune, I returned to Minne-
apolis. The next four years were spent in a surgical residency at Univer-
sity of Minnesota. During this period of study and training our oldest
boy and girl were born.

Upon completion of my specialty training in surgery I was recalled to
active duty in the Navy Medical Corps for one year. During this tour
of duty our twins, Sam and Sue, were born in the Oakland Naval Hos-

ital.
: At last I was able to start in the private practice of surgery in the fall
of 1951. We selected Minneapolis and have loved it. “Bets,” my loving
wife, has been busy in church, civic and children’s activities. Carter, Jr.,
aged sixteen, is quite a hockey player and hopes to play in college.
Libby, aged fifteen, is captain of her high school swimming team. The
twins, Sam and Sue, aged twelve, are as opposite as their sex. Sam’s de-
light is in astronomy, while Suzanne is well-rounded in most all activities.
Asa family we have been members of St. Paul’s Episcopal Church where
I served as a vestryman for several years. As for hobbies my wife and J
are avid “golfers” and “bridgers.” As the earth turns and time passes
rapidly with a busy surgical practice, our goal is the social, moral and
educational development of our four children.

GEORGE HOWLAND

 

HOME aponess: 33 High Rock St., Needham, Maas.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 529

OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 1135, Boston 3, Mass.
PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.L .
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Margaret C. Clarke, June 29, 1940. cHILDREN: Mary Eleanor, Dee. 27,
1942; Margaret Baker, Jan. 20, 1945; Edward Morris, March 8, 1952; George,
Jr., Sept. 7, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Management of property; managing partner, Minot, DeBlois &
Maddison.

OFFICES HELD: President and director, Realty Operating & Service Corporation;
trustee, Franklin Savings Bank; director, member of Executive, Mortgage and
Trust Committees, Norfolk County Trust Company; treasurer and trustee,
1950-60, president of trustees, 1960-63, Dedham Country Day School; presi-
dent, Alumni Association, since 1959, trustee and member, executive com-
mittee, since 1959, St. George’s School; assistant treasurer, Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institute.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.; Harvard Club of Boston;
Algonquin Club of Boston; Kittansett Club, Beverly Yacht Club and Sippican
Tennis Club, all Marion, Mass.

In looking back over the last twenty-five years the fact that strikes me
most strongly is how fortunate I have been and for this I am deeply
grateful. I am a lifelong Republican and at the minute am hopeful that
for the first time in my life I will have the privilege of voting for a man
for President whom I thoroughly approve of, 1.e., Senator Goldwater.

The three main facets in my life — my business, my family and my
hobby — have all brought pleasure and satisfaction. My business can be
divided into three main categories. (1) The first is the one at which I
make my living: the management of property, both real and personal
with emphasis on the former. The business has prospered and it has
been a great pleasure to work with the fine people with whom I am
associated. In the last few years many trips to San Francisco have been
of particular interest and pleasure. (2) My connection with the Norfolk
County Trust has proved most rewarding, not only from the point of
view of the people with whom I have worked but also from the experi-
ence that I have gained by so doing. (3) My avocation or work outside
the office has consisted primarily of spending a great deal of time on the
problems of primary and secondary education which I find fascinating
and the most worthwhile part of my business activities.

The family consists of a long-suffering wife and four children, two
girls in college and two small boys in primary school. I have no firm
convictions as to whether young ladies or small boys are the most satis-
fying or the most trouble. They certainly are all different and I can find

no particular resemblance to myself in any of them.

My hobby has principally been cruising under sail and I am now the
proud possessor of the Ann Alexander, a vessel about thirty feet in
length. For the most part I have confined these activities to the Buzzards
Bay area on whose shores I maintain a home at Marion, Massachusetts,
on an all-year-round basis. In the last few years I have discovered the
Bras d’Or Lakes where I have chartered and believe that it is rhe finest
place to cruise I know of.

I am looking forward to the next twenty-five years and only hope that
(1) they will be half as good and (2) that I may last that long. This
latter point seems somewhat doubtful on many occasions.

seems

530 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

JOHN HUDSON HOWLAND

 

een PE pe aR gO

 

_ Bae

HOME ADDRESS: Route 1, Windsor, Vt. 05089.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Windsor Machine Products, Inc., P.O. Box 44, Windsor, Vt. 05089.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: s.B., 1939.

marRiED: Mary Kiernan, April 12, 1941. cHipREN: Mary Ann, March 3], 1942;
John Hudson, May 14, 1946; William Glenn, May 24, 1949; Margaret Mary,
March 10, 1953; Glenn Cornelius, July 3, 1956. .

occupation: General manager and treasurer, Mt. Ascutney Ski Area, Inc.; presi-
dent, Windsor Machine Products, Inc., a sub-contract machine business.

MEMBER OF: Windsor Rotary Club; American Society of Tool and Manufacturing
Engineers; Harvard Club of Vermont.

Soon after graduation I married Mary Kiernan of Lowell, Massachu-
setts. In 1942 we moved from Vermont to Washington, D.C., where I
worked as a special agent for the Aetna Casualty & Surety Company.
This work was interrupted by a tour of duty in the Naval Reserve. I
served as executive officer aboard the amphibious craft LSM-213 with
a complement of six officers and sixty-five men. There were many en-
joyable Navy experiences with ship handling, etc. I do enjoy “McHale’s
Navy.”

We ran into serious combat trouble at Okinawa where we took a
direct hit from a Kamikaze. The report showed the LSM-213 hit while
at anchor in thirteen fathoms of water, 1300 yards from the beach at
Chimu Wan, at 0013 with thirteen casualties. Later, the ship was sur-
veyed (Navy for scrapped) at Seattle in the Thirteenth Naval District.

I returned to Windsor, Vermont, and became active in the general
insurance and real estate business, In 1950 I started up a new business
and found myself busy making gun parts and engaged in the sub-contract
machine business under the name of Windsor Machine Products, Inc.

Fight years ago I started developing and promoting a ski development
on the north side of Mt. Ascutney. We have enjoyed a steady and or-
derly development. At the present time I am the general manager and
treasurer of the corporation called Mt. Ascutney Ski Area, Inc, We
have three Hall T-Bar Lifts and a new 4700-foot Hall Double Chair Lift.
Our new Lodge is designed for 3000 skiers a day. We plan to continue
the development into a year-round recrcation area.

1 am a Republican, yet my record shows that I voted for Truman,
Fisenhower, and Kennedy. My hobbies are pretty close to home. I en-

__ LOLOL CA LL

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 531

joy my family of wife Mary and five children. 1 find their interests keep
my point of view youthful. Their ages range from seven to twenty-one
(the children, that is). I enjoy a portrait painting class that I attend each
week. As I look back twenty-five years, | am glad I made the decision
to settle in my home state of Vermont. It is the most beautiful place
in the world.

ROBERT GOLDEN HOYE

   

bidirali. a abe

HOME apprEss: 32 Peirce Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.
OFFICE appRESS: Jordan Marsh Co., 450 Washington St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Hun School, Princeton, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Priscilla Davis, Oct. 26, 1940. cHILpREN: Diane Davis, Sept. 2, 1942;
Robert Wallace, June 7, 1947.

occupation: Vice-president, Jordan Marsh Company, department store.

OFFICES HELD: President, J.B. Hunter Company, since 1955; member, board of

directors, Jordan Marsh Company, since 1955; member, Board of Examiners,
Boston Public Library, since 1959,

MEMBER OF: Weston Golf Club; Algonquin Club; Chamber of Commerce; World
Trade Center.

Immediately after graduation I started work at Jordan Marsh Com-
pany and except for three and a half years’ hiatus during World War H
have been there ever since. Little more than a year after graduation |
fortunately persuaded Priscilla Davis, Wellesley ’39, to marry me, which
has proved to be the most intelligent move I have made. Our first child,
Diane, graduated from Beaver Country Day School in 1960 and will
graduate from Wellesley College in 1964. Our other child, Robert, is
now in his third year at Phillips Andover Academy. During the war I
started in the Armored Artillery through Africa, Sicily and D-Day in
Normandy, was later transferred to General Staff of V Corps, with rank
of major, for the remainder of the European Campaign.

My career at Jordan Marsh, since the war, started as toy buyer, then
divisional merchandise manager, then general merchandise manager of
home furnishings in 1951. I was elected to the board of directors in 1935
and became a vice-president in 1962. My work has entailed considerable
traveling to markets all over the world buying merchandise.

My athletic endeavours are now confined to weekend golf and winter

532 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

bowling and an occasional romp with my collie dog who is considerably
more agile and enthusiastic than I. I enjoy seeing all the Harvard foot-
ball games and as many other athletic events as possible. Priscilla is very
active in Wellesley College affairs and many other civic endeavours.
We are looking forward to seeing many classmates at our 25th Reunion

and hope our son, Robert, will be graduating from Harvard on our
3oth Reunion.

ERNEST VALENTINE HUBBARD t+

   

LAST MAILING apprEss: 830 Park Ave., New York, N.Y. 10021.

RANULPH HUDSTON, JR.
er RE ET TE —a

   

BORN: Feb, 11, 1918, Denver, Colo. ranents: Ranulph Hudston, Ethel Simpson.
PREPARED AT: East Denver High School, East Denver, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: 5.B., 1939.
pirp: April 28, 1951, Denver, Colo.

After a long illness, Hudston died in Denver. He was survived by
his parents.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 533

* WILLIAM EDGAR HUENEKENS

  

BORN: Sept. 24, 1916, Minneapolis, Minn. PARENTS: Edgar John Huenekens,
Helen Fish.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s Academy, St. Paul, Minn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1942.
piep: Killed in plane crash, June 27, 1944, in England.

William Edgar Huenekens was associated with a law firm in St. Paul,
Minnesota, before entering the Army Air Force in January, 1943. He
received his wings and continued training as a second lieutenant in com-
mand of a B-24. In the spring of 1944, he flew to England and was as-
signed to a squadron training secretly for work to aid the French under-
ground by dropping supplies. His plane was shot down while on a night
training flight. He was posthumously awarded the Purple Heart. He
was survived by his parents.

DAVID ERNEST HUMEZ

aay

       

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Parker St., Lexington, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Nortronics, Norwood, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge. Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938, 1943-1946. pDreGREE: a.B., 1939(46).

MARRIED: Elisabeth Gleason, June 20, 1941. cHttpReN: Paul Alexander, Feb. 28,
1945; Nicholas David, March 11, 1948,

OCCUPATION: Physicist, gyroscopes,

534 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

OFFICES HELD: Town Meeting Member, Lexington, Mass.; president, P.T.A.
1936-57, moderator, Citizens’ Committee for the Lexington Publie Schools,
1961-63: beard member and precinct chairman, Lexington Town Meeting
Members’ Association, 1962-63.

PUBLICATIONS: Several papers and patents: aerodynamics, photometry, semi-con-
ductor devices, testing machinery, etc.

I graduated from Harvard in stages: dropping out in the middle of
my junior year, I batted around in Cambridge, selling from door to door,
teaching ballroom dancing and eking out a very meager existence.
Eventually I applied for, and got, a job at General Electric, working in
their Machinist Apprentice Program. This involved going back to school
to take a few night courses at M.L-T., and thus | worked up to applying
for readmittance to Harvard, after several years more. By this time |
was married, and had progressed to the status of a methods engineer
(efficiency expert). An army reject, 1 worked to become a physicist,
feeling that I could be most useful with a Bachelor’s degree. I was almost
in sight of graduation when our first child was born, and between com-
muung to college by bicycle, refinishing an apartment and becoming a
landlord, I flunked some of my finals. I dusted myself off, went out and
got a new job in a Harvard laboratory where the atmosphere would be
propitious to leaving work to take one final term, and worked there for
a year.

One afternoon at closing time, I ran my left hand accidentally across
a power saw, and while | was recovering in the hospital I applied for
readmission to Harvard. It took a little persuasion to be readmitted, but
in June, 1946, with General Eisenhower and Governor Saltonstall look-
ing on, I received my degree. After several years more in the lab at Har-
vard, during which time my second child was born, I went out into the
world (outside the University) to seek my fortune, and while I don’t
exactly seem to have found it, I have had several jobs, each more chal-

lenging than the last, have moved to a very pleasant and stimulating
suburban community, have dropped comfortably into the pattern of
town meetings, church choir, P.T.A., fund drives and so on.

We spend summers (that is, my wife and any available child does, and
I spend my vacation and weekends) at an ancestral place in Maine, and
our chief form (or forms) of recreation involves the kaleidoscopic
careers of our kids: Will Alex pass geology? Will Nico get his English
done on time? How many fellow students will Alex bring home with
him? Shall we wait up to find them beds? Where is Nico — run over,
visiting a friend with a better darkroom, calling on prospective members
of a double vocal quartet? Listen in next week when the problems will
be different. And so, as we walk into the sunset, I go off to the town
dump, or to fix something that needs fixing, or to work on the United

Fund drive, or } fall exhausted into a deep chair, with electronic supply-

house catalog and Playboy and Scientific American within reach. Since

you're up, would you be willing to turn that record over?

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 535

JAMES HUMPHRY, Ill
ey

  

HOME ApprEss: 10 Ridge Rd., New Rochelle, N.Y. 10804.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Metropolitan Museum of Art, New York, N.Y. 10028.

PREPARED aT: Dwight School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREEs: A.B., 1939; s.m. (Columbia Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Priscilla Eaton, Dec. 26, 1942. curLpREN: Susan, April 13, 1947; Elizabeth
Ames, Sept. 23, 1953.

occupation: Chief librarian, Metropolitan Museum of Art.

OFFICES HELD: President, Maine Library Association, 1955-56; councillor, Ameri-
can Library Association, 1959-63; member, board of directors, Association
of College and Research Libraries, 1959-63; officer, New York Chapter,
Special Libraries Association, since 1962; convener, Archons of Colophon,
since 1963; president, 1958-61, member, board of governors, since 1961,
Metropolitan Museum of Art Employees Association.

MEMBER OF: American Library Association; Special Libraries Association; New
England and Maine Library Associations; New York Library Club; Reserve

Officers Association of United States of America; Grolier Club; Archons of
Colophon.

puBLicatTions: The Library of Edwin Arlington Robinson, Colby, 1950; co-author,
FitzGerald’s Rubaiyat, Centennial Edition, Colby, 1959; contributor of articles
to professional journals and magazines.

On that fateful date in June, 1939, when each one of us was awarded a
degree, little did J realize that I was destined to stay with books. How-
ever, the profession of librarianship has proved to be a rewarding one
in all respects and I have no regrets. After having been oriented in the
way of libraries and librarians at the famous proving ground known as
the New York Public Library, I entered Columbia University to pursue
a Master’s degree, the requirements for which were met immediately
preceding the call to arms in December of 1941.

The four years of my first tour of duty in the military were spent
pretty much in one unit, save for the usual sprinkling of various service
schools. From 1942 to 1946, second lieutenant to major, I was a member
of the 373d Field Artillery Battalion, 1ooth Infantry Division, from its
day of activation to its day of deactivation, and ending with the dubious
honor of having the longest service in the unit.

Upon my return from the war in Europe I went back briefly to the
New York Public Library and then moved to Waterville, Maine, and
Colby College, of which FT was librarian, professor of bibhography, and
business manager of the Colby College Press, Three months after as-

536 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

suming these duties the students (and I!) moved its library to a beautiful
new building centrally located on the new campus on Mayflower Hill
which had been under construction since 1929 but hampered in its prog-
ress first by a depression and then by a war. Only four short years of
stimulating academic life elapsed before Uncle Sam called a second time.

In 1951 I left Colby for what was to be a three-year tour with General
Mark Clark’s Army Field Forces at Fort Monroe, Virginia. Suffice it
to say that the chronology of these two tours was certainly fortunate;
it is easier to adjust to the life of a general staff officer on the four-star
level after having lived in a fox hole. One of the most interesting aspects
of the duty was the travel to all parts of the United States as well as to
foreign countries. At the moment my Reserve status (lieutenant colonel)
is that of a mobilization designee to the Continental Army Command at
Fort Monroe.

In 1954 I returned to Colby where I resumed my former duties. When
I resigned from Colby in 1957 to accept a challenging position at the
Metropolitan Museum of Art, one of my regrets was leaving two of my
classmates, Bob Strider, who had just assumed the office of dean of the
faculty, and Bill Miller of the Art Department.

My six years in New York represent the longest time, by two years,
that Pve stayed in one place! This will be the last stop if the rewarding
aspects of the present job are the sole criteria for relocating. I am now
kept busy by serving such organizations as the American Library Asso-
ciation, the Special Libraries Association, the New York Library Club,
and several others of a professional and social nature. My immediate
hope is to see to completion a new library building at the Metropolitan,
and then I plan to apply automation to its operation so I can take it easy!
In my spare time I write articles for professional journals, advise Boards
of Trustees on library buildings and policies, edit articles for encyclo-
pedias, etc.

My beautiful and intelligent wife has helped me to produce two equally
beautiful daughters. One is a Yankee from Maine and the other a Rebel
from Virginia, and to say that they indulge in their own civil war would
be a gross understatement. The family is now grown up enough so that
while the grandparents kept the home fires burning, my wife and I were
able to go off to Europe last year — it was so pleasant and educational
we're anxious to go again. Until then, however, we'll continue to enjoy
vacations in New Hampshire.

In this troubled world of ours, optimism is, 1 suppose, the proper atti-
tude. A sense of humor is added therapy, especially when it comes to
Westchester taxes! However, Harvard, if not the cause, has helped in
considerable measure to offset them (taxes!) and I acknowledge a debt
that can never be fully paid.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 537

JOHN AMES HUMPHRY

Be orem true ae

  

Ria

   

SS ei SAA Ni Mi tg SRDS ith

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Bedford Rd., Springfield, Mass. 01107.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Springfield Library and Museums Association, 220 State St.
Springfield, Mass. 01103.

PREPARED AT: Harrison High School, Harrison, N.Y.; Dwight School, New
York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; s.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Louise Daniell, Sept. 13, 1941. cHILDREN: Jonathan Ames,
May 18, 1946; Keith Daniell, May 19, 1949.

occuPpATION: Director, City Library, Springfield, Mass., since 1948; executive
director, Springfield Library and Museums Association, since 1960.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Massachusetts Board of Library Commissioners, since
1957; president, Massachusetts Library Association, 1957-58; director, New
England Library Association, 1953-54; member, board of directors, Resources
and Technical Services Division, American Library Association, since 1960;
chairman, American Library Association Membership Committee for New
England, since 1958; chairman, Massachusetts Library Development Com-
mittee, 1959; associate in Public Library Administration, Simmons College,
Boston, 1952-54; visiting lecturer in library science, American International
College, Springfield, 1959-61; auditor, Western Massachusetts Library Club,
since 1959; secretary-treasurer, Phillips Lecture Fund, since 1951; member,
board of directors, Springfield Adult Education Association, since 1948;
member, Advisory Board, Springfield Motion Picture Council, since 1950;
member, Advisory Council, Springfield College Community Tensions Center,
since 1958; treasurer, 1951-61, member, board of directors, since 1951, World
Affairs Council of the Connecticut Valley; member, Implementation Commit-
tee of the Lecture Time Study, Springfield Community Council, since 1960;
member, Education Committee, Citizens’ Action Commission for Springfield,
since 1958.

pustications: Library Cooperation, the Brown University Study of University-
School-Community Library Coordination in the State of Rhode Island, pub-
lished by Brown University Press, 1963.

A look back over the twenty-five years since graduation provides
considerable opportunity for reflection, There are many arguments for
and against the contention we are making progress as a civilized nation,
but being somewhat of an optimist I believe, all things considered, we
are going forward.

When I entered Harvard I had little idea as to what ficld of endeavor
to pursue. In my junior year the College offered me the opportunity to
work in Widener and this cast the die for my future. After graduation
I was appointed to a full-time position in the College Library; in the fall

538 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

of 1940 I entered Columbia’s Graduate School of Library Service and
worked part time in the New York Public Library. In the fall of the
year I graduated (1941), I married Elizabeth Louise Daniell, who had
graduated from Wheelock in 1939.

During World War II, I served as a field service consultant for the
Office of Scientific Research and Development and was assigned special
intelligence duty in the Office of the Chief of Naval Operations in
Washington. When the War was over, I was asked to remain because
the Office had been incorporated into the naval organization and a few
men were needed during the transition period. Again at a later date,
during the years 1951, 1952, 1953, I served as a special consultant in this
office located in the Pentagon.

By 1946, however, I decided to return to my chosen profession and
was appointed director of book processing in the Enoch Pratt Free
Library of Baltimore, one of the nation’s finest public libraries. In 1948
1 was appointed director of the City Library in Springfield, Massachu-
setts, the city of my birth. I have been completely happy in Springfield
because of the challenge of continuing to provide the people of the city
with books and information. Provision of cultural opportunities for the
people of a community is vital to the success, yes even the existence, of
our democratic society. In 1957 the Governor of Massachusetts, Chris-
tian A. Herter, appointed me to the Board of Library Commissioners.
During the past seven years considerable effort has been expended by
the Board to secure legislation permitting cooperative planning by the
public libraries of the Commonwealth so that all the residents of the
State might have quality library service. Permissive legislation was en-
acted in 1960 which is being implemented. I have enjoyed this oppor-

tunity to be of service.

My family and profession have been my inspiration through the years.
My wife is enjoying her teaching in the public schools. Our teen-age
sons are making plans to enter college. We have traveled extensively in
this country and hope to travel abroad some day to further our educa-
tion. Community, civic, and professional activities keep one mindful of
the job that needs to be done to preserve our American heritage.

The library field has provided much intellectual stimulation. During
the past ten years some thirty boards of library trustees of public, school,
and college libraries have invited me to assist them in developing build-
ing and service programs. This is a source of great satisfaction. In 1960
I was asked to direct for Brown University a state-wide evaluation of
library service in Rhode Island which culminated in a book published by
the University. The project was financed by the Council on Library
Resources, a foundation supporting library research projects, Civic, edu-
cational, cultural, church, and community obligations continue to make
life interesting.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT §39

CARROLL GOODHUE HUNNEWELL +

        
  

mony

  

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 866 Washington St., Wellesley 81, Mass.

WALTER HUNNEWELL, JR.

er

  

HOME ADpDRESS: 855 Washington St., Wellesley, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gillette Co., Gillette Park, Boston 6, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; M.B.A., 1941.

MARRIED: Maria Luisa de la Borbolla, Sept. 6, 1952. cHILDREN: Maria Luisa, Aug.
2, 1953; Walter, 3d, Dec. 14, 1956; Francis W., Sept. 14, 1960; Jane P.,
Aug. 28, 1962.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president in charge of International Division II, in charge of
all Gillette operations in Latin America and Australia.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, U.S. Inter-American Council; vice-president and trustee,
Pan American Society of New England; trustee and member, executive
committee, North Bennet St. Industrial School.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass; Somerset Club.

After leaving college I spent two years at the Harvard Business School,
graduating in 1941. By early ’42 I was in the Navy and spent four years
as an officer on a seagoing tug.

On getting out of the Navy at the end of the war, I joined what was
then the Gillette Safety Razor Company. In 1948 I was sent to Mexico
where the company was starting a new manufacturing plant. | spent six
years in Mexico, living in Mexico City, where I met my wife and thor-

enna IE TETRN VETERE meERI ET iE Sow:

540 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

oughly enjoyed that very fascinating country. In 1954 I returned to
head office of the Gillette Company in Boston. I have been fortunat
my work and I have a most interesting job.

I continue to live in Wellesley, Massachusetts, where I have lived
my life with the exception of the war years and my stay in Mex.

I wavel extensively in connection with my work, particularly to Le
America and Australia.

WILLIAM WOODBRIDGE HUNT

wes

   

HOME ADDRESS: 336 Marion Rd., Middleboro, Mass.

OFFICE abpREss: Veterans Administration Hospital, Brockton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1937, 1938-1940, DEGREES: A.B., 1939(40); m.p. (Bostor
Univ.), 1948. .

MARRIED: Mary Louise Warren. CHILDREN: Wilma Harriet, April 28, 1948; Lilliar.

Browne, Dec. 26, 1949; Joanne, June 29, 1951; William Warren, Feb. 21, 19535
Ralph Vernon, March 20, 1956.

occupation: Physician, psychiatric hospital.

1 am simply unable to comply with the directions given. In the first
place, I've seen only three classmates since graduation, and those only
very briefly. On one of those occasions I dropped Bob Whallon’s son —
1 hope it is somewhat extenuating that I was working nights and was
very tired. Perhaps that’s why I’ve never heard from Bob since. I’ve
never heard from any of my other friends in the Class either, and that
makes it hard for me to think that any of them would much care about
the details of my life. I would prefer to skip from °39 right up to the
present.

1am a staff physician at the VA Hospital in Brockton, Massachusetts.

My wife is also a physician, doing mostly obstetrics. We have three girls
and two boys. We live way out in the woods so that the girls can have
horses, cows, goats and gardens, I’m the hired man who does the heavy

chores, The boys hunt and fish. Our pleasures are simple and inex-

pensive except for the grain bills. I’m dreading the day when the kids
start wanting to go to college——I hear rumors that it’s more expensive
than the horses. Of course, I] hope that they will have less difficulty with

finances than I did. As an economy measure I never even got my
diploma.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 541

THOMAS OAKFORD HUNTER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1534 N. Sheridan Rd., Peoria, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Commercial National Bank of Peoria, Peoria, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Peoria High School, Peoria, II.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: a.B., 1939; LL.B., cum laude, 1942.

MARRIED: Joan Sargent, Sept. 19, 1939. cHiLDREN: Thomas Oakford, Jr., Oct. 9,
1941; Robert Tyler, Jan. 14, 1943; Barbara Anne, May 19, 1947.

HARVARD SONS: Thomas Oakford Hunter, Jr., 64; Robert Tyler Hunter, 65.

OCCUPATION: Banking; vice-president and trust officer—trust administration,
Commercial National Bank of Peoria.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices in charitable and community arts organizations; one
term on City Council.

Graduation from college was followed almost immediately by a nearly
simultaneous undertaking of marriage and of the study of law —two
commitments that seem to have determined the shape of the years that
have followed. After two and a half years of pastoral contentment at
the Law School, things were temporarily diverted by the war — numer-
ous months in Key West with two uncivilized sons, the prickly heat,
and many cockroaches — some rather strenuous weeks in California be-
ing educated and drinking with old classmates — and a timeless stretch
on the far Pacific among barbarians and an occasional Harvard man.

In 1945 I began the practice of law in Peoria. This involved reward-
ing and diversified professional activity, ranging from court-appointed
and unsuccessful defenses for indigent criminals to the corporate prob-
lems of the local brewery. In 1956, however, feeling old age approach-
ing, I accepted the offer of a comfortable desk chair in the trust depart-
ment of a client bank, where controversy and litigation (except with
the Treasury Department) are officially banned, but where the people
and problems are varied, often exacting, and frequently colorful.

Meanwhile, our two sons and a daughter have wandered through the
educational ways — the sons now at Harvard, the daughter in high school.
Joan and I have observed, encouraged, berated, been appalled, been
pleased, attended P.T.A, meetings and football games, and generally acted
like normal parents. Among these have been countless meetings of com-
munity boards and committees together with the usual and customary
accoutrement of civic life.

Altogether they have been years of contentment and quiet interest,
little of which I would want to change and much of the best of which

542 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

has derived from a few dozen months in Cambridge a short twenty-fiv
years Of SO ago.

MELVIN DAVID HURWITZ

   

nd '
Neves i

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1550 Winding Rd., Southampton, Pa. 18966.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rohm & Haas Co., Research Laboratories, Spring House, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937~1939. DECREES: A.B., 1939; s.m. (Univ. of Chicago), 1942;
PH.D. (Cornell Univ.), 1948. -

MARRIED: Charlotte Krevitsky, July 11, 1943. cuitpREN: Judith, Oct. 25, 1949;
Michael A., Dee. 16, 1952; Sara, Sept. 7. 1955.

occuration: Industrial research chemist; laboratory head, Rohm & Haas Company.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: “Catalytic Reduction of Bromobenzene to Biphenyl,” JACS;
“Changes in the Physical Properties of Cotton on Crosslinking,” Textiles
Research Journal, April, 1961; “Dialdehydes as Cotton Cellulose Cross-
Linkers,” Textile Research Journal, March, 1958; “t-Carbinamines, RR’R’
‘CNH2IIT The Preparation of Isocyanates, Isothiocyanates and Related Com-
pounds,” JACS, 1956; twenty patents in the fields of organic chemicals, coat-
ing resins and textile processing.

The twenty-five years since graduation have indeed been brief. These
comprised, in sequence, graduate study (University of Chicago), re-
search on explosives during World War II (NRDC, Division 8), more
graduate study (Cornell) and, since 1948, a position in industrial chemical
research (Rohm & Haas Company).

Research has presented a constant challenge, only part of which has
been with the molecules. Assignments have been most varied — from
the “Ivory Tower” to leather tanneries. A wife and three children, al-
ways busy, two and a half acres of land in a cooperative community,
amateur radio (K3MJQ), and school, religious and professional organi-
zations insure freedom from boredom.

The current political trend sharply to the right and the anger of
youth, though as yet of a minority, speak of deep frustrations. This is
worrisome in a time of increasing material wealth.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 543

EDWARD BUTLER HUTTON

 

HOME ADpREss: Linden Lane, Duxbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Eaton & Howard, Inc., 24 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Gallison, July 31, 1943. CHILDREN: Edward Butler, Jr., July
27, 1945; Jeffrey Gallison, July 23, 1947; Heidi Elizabeth, Aug. 21, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Investment counselor.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, 1947-57, senior warden, 1957-59, Church of St. John
the Evangelist.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Old Colony Harvard Club; Duxbury Yacht
Club; Wardroom Club; Duxbury Badminton Club.

After graduation | commenced my business career with a real estate
firm in Boston. Two years later or the early summer of 1941, I was
called to active duty as an ensign in the USNR. Although some four
and a half years later, the war appeared to me to end sooner than I ex-
pected for I suddenly found myself home again and with a wonderful
wife and a young son, but without any plans or thoughts about resum-
ing my career.

Soon, however, I started with a small shoe manufacturing concern in
Brockton, Massachusetts, which was a traffic-less forty-minute drive
from our home in Duxbury. Although I progressed in this company,
becoming an officer and director, I began to realize that challenges were
shrinking and the work was becoming less satisfying each passing day.

After much soul-searching, I finally concluded that there was only one
course for me — start over again in a field where I would be happy. Ap-
parently, I was sailing under my lucky star for I had an opportunity to
become associated with the investment counseling firm of Faton &
Howard, Inc., in Boston. At long last I am enjoying an occupation which
is giving me great satisfaction and a tremendous challenge.

Since 1948 we have resided in the same house, which is a traditional
Cape Cod overlooking Duxbury Bay. We built this house and have
made additions and improvements from time to time, many of which
we performed ourselves much to our enjoy ment.

We have always devoted much of our time to our three children, the
eldest of whom 1s now a freshman at Trinity. We wish that we might
have traveled more often as a family but cducation expenses have been
given priority and with no regrets,

544 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Living in a small town makes demands on any citizen who wishes to
be helpful. My two major community interests have been church and
school. I spent ten active years as a vestryman in our Episcopal Church,
including the last two as senior warden. In the school field I had the
pleasure of being chairman of a Town Committee to study the needs
for a new school, present plans, and to proceed with the construction of
a new school building. This project which covered a span of almost
three years I found most fascinating.

My favorite hobby continues to be, as it was in our college years, sail-
ing and cruising. Fortunately, my wife and children share this pleasure
with me along with a number of other activities we enjoy together as
a family. All in all, I feel that fam a most fortunate and a very happy
individual.

BENJAMIN DWIGHT HYDE

     

Se ant 4 REMI
ae i
“wey - :
$
tame ms ' 2
“4
4 ; y
\ ‘
oe
> . va
i -

HOME ADDRESS: Tower Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Co., Space & Information Division, Bedford, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935~1939. DEGREE: A.B. 1939.

MARRIED: Mildred Hunter Brown, Jan. 25, 1947. CHILDREN: Benjamin Dwight,
Nov. 7, 1947; Nathaniel Weare, Nov. 22, 1949; Cynthia Denise, July 16, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Missiles and space; technical director, Missile Countermeasures
Program.

orFices HELD: Director, Metropolitan Storage Warehouse, 1955-62; Membership
Committee, Harvard Club of Boston, 1940-41; treasurer, Lincoln School
Association, 1957; chairman, Lincoln March of Dimes, 1954, 1955, 1956.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Naval Engineers; Harvard Engineering Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Patent, High Speed Coating of Textile Fabrics.

After graduating with an engineering degree 1 did a brief stint in
industry earning the customary princely salary which today would be
scorned by any self-respecting cab driver. Ordered to active duty 4s
ensign, USNR, in September, toq1, | ended up fifty-three months later
as a licutenant commander, having spent nearly this entire period at sea,
sixty per cent in the North Atlantic and the remainder in the Western
Pacific, At various times I had command of an attack transport (APD),
destroyer escort, and a small coastal minesweeper, Although the APD
saw action in the Philippines and did a forty-three-day stand as a picket
ship during the Okinawa operation, the two North Atlantic winters
spent aboard the DE between New York and the Clyde, Scotland, re-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 545

main in retrospect the most trying. Perhaps the only really intelligent
thing I did during the war was to remain single!

Early in 1946 I returned to my former employer, the United Shoe
Machinery Corporation, where I remained five years as the principal
development engineer of their subsidiary, the B.B. Chemical Company
of Cambridge. In 1947 I married a Cambridge girl. After two years of
living almost in Harvard Square, we moved to a rural suburb of Boston
along with our two boys, Dwight, now at Noble and Greenough, and
Nicky, now at Fessenden. The first is a student and the second an
athlete and both hope to get to Harvard. In the summer of 1952 our
third child, Cynthia, arrived three months after my wife had come down
with a moderately severe case of polio. Cynthia weathered this without
incident but her mother was rather less fortunate and has been forced
to rely on a wheelchair ever since. Inevitably, this has affected our fam-
ily to a degree and has been somewhat limiting, but Mildred feels there
arte some compensations, among which is an absolute guarantee against
having to spend her summer vacations cruising the New England coast
aboard a forty-five-foot auxiliary yaw] with a tamily nearly as nautically
oriented as I! Although Uncle Sam’s tax collector does not permit us
to own a boat, we charter a fine one every summer from the same owner
and combine a mixed crew of adults and juniors. The former include a
Harvard classmate and a member of ’36. Sometimes I get the feeling
that these delightful summer expeditions may be a mistake for they give
the younger generation a taste for the better things in life which they
will probably never be able to afford. However, if any of my classmates
have need of a husky deckhand fairly handy with light sails and who
can do a respectable job of coastwise piloting, I have two candidates.

After I spent several years with a firm of consulting engineers (Arthur
D. Little, Inc.), it became apparent that the required and extended
traveling schedule was incompatible with our particular problems at
home. I then joined Raytheon where [ currently serve as technical
director of a missile program. The move to Raytheon came about
through my previous work at Little’s during the early phases of the

Atlas ICBM Program which ultimately led me to further nussile work
at Raytheon.

GORDON STERLING IERARDI

546 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Howe sppREss: 7 St. Claire Ave., Old Greenwich, Conn.

orrice abpress: John Wiley & Sons, 605 Third Ave., New York 16, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1939.

marriep: Jean Colburn Temple, July 27, 1946. cumpren: C. Brooks Temple, Dec.

6, 1942 (stepson); Katharine H. Temple, May 11, 1944 (stepdaughter) ; Susan
Sterling. April 9, 1948; Laura Colburn, Aug. 10, 1952.

occupation: Book publishing: assistant vice-president, editor, in charge of
program im social and behavioral sciences.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, National Braille Press, Inc.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; American Sociological Association;
American Political Science Association; Harvard Club of New York; Rocky

Point Club, Old Greenwich.

I wonder how many classmates are sharing at this moment my dis-
turbed thoughts. Staring at this demand sheet of paper, wondering how
fully one’s thoughts and activities should be bared, reviewing twenty-
five years of life and suddenly realizing how many dreams have eva-
nesced like the tea kettle’s steam, how many goals have been compro-
mised in part, how little has been the impact of this individual on this
society, how many opportunities have been missed and how few seized
— and to think that every year we put hundreds of men who have
reached this milestone on this rack of introspection!

Well, first the career. This has been pretty well outlined in past
Reports. I am still an assistant vice-president (they need someone to
sign checks!) of a fine book publishing company and still carry re-
sponsibility for our social and behavioral science publishing program,
though now this has been vastly expanded. As a natural concomitant,
this involves me increasingly in administrative problems when my per-
sonal inclination is to deal with author and manuscript situations. Put
briefly, administration frustrates me. It is gratifyimg to know that cer-
tain people must enjoy this activity, else our whole complex civilization
would collapse.

L enjoy book publishing and would not willingly follow another career.

I like the fact that each book is a gamble with all the elements of excite-
ment that gambling provides for so many of us. To bet that one has
correctly appraised the significance of a new field, the extent of the
potential market and the qualifications of an author to write in that field
and then to find that the bet has paid off financially and with honor to
the imprint is a deep and abiding thrill. Let’s not talk of the flops—
the skeletons that live in every editor’s closet. Another residual benefit
is the thought that one has provided the channel by which is made avail-
able some addition to the store of human knowledge. May all classmates
be similarly placed so that Monday mornings are never dreaded.

My family is a source of both delight and despair. Did I not love its
members deeply, they would evoke neither sentument. As the children
progress, adolescence to adulthood, it is a constant reminder that the
years have indeed passed. With a son in the Marines, a girl in college
and two girls still at home, Jean and I meet daily the problems of youth
in various stages. I’m probably not a terribly good or model parent,
though I try my best. Here, as elsewhere, I recognize my frailries and
limitations. Yet is it not this that characterizes us as hu

' : : Le man beings and
not just infallible cogs in a mechanistic culture?

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 547

Extensive travel is my lot in connection with my work but, to my
regret, only in the United States. I leave the more exotic trips to the
rest of you. I have few hobbies beyond reading, though I collect a few
stamps, listen to some good music, enjoy a little swimming and sailing
and enjoy a good drink (for medicinal purposes! ). I root for the Red
Sox and the Harvard teams and am gratified more often by the latter.

Politically, 1 am an independent, though if 1 had to choose up sides I
would probably be found in the liberal wing of the Republican Party.
I believe firmly in the rights and responsibilities of the individual as op-
posed to the group. [ am positively for complete and unqualified civil
rights for all people in our society. As Alexander King put it, I want
the freedom to be able to call a member of a minority group an S.O.B.
if I feel he is and deserves the label — and not be oppressed by any feel-
ings of guilt. This is possible only if everyone has equal opportunities,
equal chances and complete acceptance by his fellow man.

One final word. As the years go on, I feel ever more grateful to the
Harvard of the Thirties. It is undoubtedly a fine institution now, but |
wonder if it exerts as strong a cultural and social influence on current
undergraduates as I feel it did on me.

ALEXANDER DUER IRVING, II
neereanememepennon a ee

  

DM te

   

HOME ADDRESS: Street Road, Unionville, Chester County, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: E. I. duPont de Nemours & Co., Inc., Wilmington, Del.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Colette D. Gay, June 16, 1941. cHiLpren: Alexandra D., Jan. 2, 1945;
Evelyn D., June 14, 1948; Michael D. G., Aug. 6, 1954.

occupation: Export marketing, export marketing manager.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

CHARLES ROBERT IRWIN

~

  

w : |

:
4
'

 

HOME spprEss: 7] E. 77th St., New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICE appRESS: 557 Fifth Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED aT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE; 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

marniep: Anna Geraldine White, April 18, 1949. cuipren: Maribeth, May 22,
1950; Alison Marie, Jan. 16, 1952; Robert, Aug. 21, 1954.

OccUPATION: General agent, Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

1939 — entered life insurance business with Penn Mutual Life Insur-
ance Company in Boston.

1942-45 —US. Army (private) —U.S. Air Corps (first lieutenant);
commissioned in Australia. Total service in South Pacific.

1945-48 — Penn Mutual, Boston. .

1948-51 — general agent, Penn Mutual, Oakland, California.

1951— married Anna Geraldine White Regis College, Harvard
Graduate School of Education, Children: Maribeth and Alison Marie
attend the Chapin School in New York City; Robert attends the Buckley
School in New York City.

OLIVER ISELIN, JR.

 

Home avonsss: High Farms Koad, Glen Head, N.Y,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 549

OFFICE ADDRESS: Iselin-Jefferson Co., Inc., 111 W. 40th St., New York 18, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Coghill Downes, April 10, 1948. cHILDREN: Susan E. Taylor
(stepdaughter), Oct. 7, 1941 (m. Philip Graham) ; Frederick Downes, July 26,
1950; Oliver, 3d, Sept. 15, 1952; Jennifer, March 24, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Textile executive; first vice-president, Iselin-Jefferson Company,
Ine.; president, Iselin-Jefferson Financial Company, Ine.

MEMBER OF: Piping Rock Club; A.D. Club, Cambridge, Mass.; Harvard Club
of New York.

Taking a rather pedestrian existence and making the record of it sound
like a Horatio Alger story is a challenge I wish I were equal to. Try as I
might, however, writing about four and a half years in a navy cruiser
can’t be made to read like the film script of PT 109.

After World War II, I joined a textile company that was largely
family-owned, and although I started at the bottom, there are reasons
other than ability why I didn’t stay there long. And 1 took this job be-
cause I was too lazy to complete courses for an engineering degree
started, prewar, in preparation for a career in the automotive industry.

It even took three years of concentrated effort to convince a girl to
marry me. As my wife, Elizabeth, is Australian, we are committed to a
certain amount of world travel. I have been to India, but haven't shot
a tiger or seen the Taj Mahal. I have been to New Zealand, but Zane
Grey’s record marlin catch remains unchallenged by me. I have skied
in the Rockies, but haven’t even broken a bone. We have three children
and, as a parent, I think they are fantastic. But who doesn’t?

DANFORTH JACKSON

 

HOME AND OFFICE Apbpress: R.F.D. 2, Wilton, N.H.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N_H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. prcREE: a-.B., 1939(40).
MARRIED: Alida B. Goodwin, June, 1956 (divorced 1963),
occupation: Consulting mining geologist and land surveyor,

550 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

NEAL JACOBS

“oa,
. je ee ;

  

HOME AppRESS: 14 Warren St., Needham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jacobs Shoe Store, 30 Chestnut St., Needham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Needham High School, Needham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1936-1939, DEGREES: A.B., 1939; s.B. IN B.A. (Babson
Inst.) , 1940.

marriep: Ruth H. Miller, July 18, 1948. cuHmpren: David Elihu, April 3, 1952;
Edith Jane, March 31, 1955,

OccuPATION: Retail shoe store owner.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Parking & Traffic Committee, 1951-52, chairman, Land
Acquisition Committee, 1963, Town of Needham; president, Needham Board
of Trade, 1949; chairman, Realty & Development Committee, Needham Cham-
ber of Commerce, 1963.

MEMBER OF: Exchange Club of Needham; B'nai B’rith Shoe and Leather Lodge;
Wellesley Conservation Council ; Norfolk County Sheriff’s Associates; Need-
ham Boy Scout Troop No. 1 Dads’ Committee; Needham Historical Society.

Unlike the story of most of us, my life has been geographically de-
limited. It has been spent entirely in Needham. Vacation trips are not
the best time to judge how others live, as you usually see only the fagade
of the places you visit.

However, reading daily about the world’s problems makes us realize
we cannot remain untouched by them. Whatever little each of us can
do for better understanding of each other should not be shirked.

BERNARD JAMES JACOBSON

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 55%

HOME ApprEss: 1] N. Clover Drive, Great Neck, N_Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tennis Enterprises, Inc., 102 Cutter Mill Rd., Great Neck, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Lynn English High School, Lynn, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Joyce Geist, Sept. 18, 1942. cHILDREN: Susan Jacobson, March 4, 1944;
Peggy Ann, April 2, 1946,

occupation: President, Tennis Enterprises, Inc., builders and operators of indoor
tennis courts.

OFFICES HELD: President, Electronic Signal Company, 1957-60; vice-president,
Taller-Cooper Company, 1952-58.

After graduation I worked for Sears Roebuck & Company, as an ex-
ecutive trainee. In 1941 I was drafted into the U.S. Army. Upon my
discharge on a certificate of disability, I went to work as an industrial
analyst. It was while in Washington that I met my wife (a native New
Yorker). After the war I returned to New York and went to work for
Lehman Brothers, investment bankers, as an industrial analyst.

My most significant recent employment has been:

(a) Vice-president, Taller-Cooper, New York. This company was
engaged in the manufacture of equipment for the collection of tolls on
bridges, tunnels and turnpikes. This was the biggest manufacturer of
such equipment in the world and business took me on extended trips to
South America and Europe.

(b) President, Electronic Signal Company, New York. Under my
direction, this company became the second biggest manufacturer of toll
collection equipment in the world. After some years, the management
of the parent company changed and I engaged in the private consulting
business.

My most enjoyable experience was the combination pleasure and
business sojourn in Europe during 1961-62. My children were in school
in Geneva and my wife and I spent fourteen months in Europe, head-
quartering in Paris. By automobile, we covered over 27,000 miles. We
are now trying to arrange our lives to be able to spend at least four
months a year in Europe.

My hobby is tennis. I have got so involved as to have founded a com-
pany engaged in the construction of indoor tennis facilities in the East.
Our company was the first to construct and operate in the Northeast
(perhaps the country) commercial facilities specifically for indoor tennis.
Since then, others have imitated us, and indoor tennis is now an industry.

My political convictions are liberal, and I think our fellow Harvard
man is doing just fine in Washington,

552 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ERIC HOWARD JAGER

    

HOME AbpRESS: 1305 Perth, Wichita, Kans.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Petroleum, Inc., 352 N. Broadway, Wichita, Kans.

PREPARED AT: Wichita High School East, Wichita, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pecREES: a.B., cum laude, 1939; a.m. (Univ. of
Texas), 1941.

marnieD: Emma Old, June 11, 1941. cHmpren: Eric Thor, June 19, 1943; Jan
Blair, Oct. 12, 1946; Karen Ruth, Jan. 18, 1948.

HARVARD SON: Eric Thor Jager, °65.

occupation: Executive vice-president, Petroleum, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Wichita Symphony Board, 1957-63.

MEMBER: American Association of Petroleum Geologists; Kansas Geological
Society; Wichita Petroleum Club; Wichita Country Club; Independent
Petroleum Association of America.

PUBLICATIONS: “Pre-Cretaceous Topography of Western Edwards Plateau —
Texas,” published in 1942 in AAPG Bulletin.

Life since college graduation has consisted essentially of two years
toward a Master’s degree in geology from the University of Texas,
marriage, four years in the Army, three children, and eighteen years of
exploration for oil and gas on the North American Continent. In 1941
I married Emma Old of Mount Pleasant, Texas. We have been very
happy. My war experience consisted of service as a platoon leader and
company commander of an armored reconnaissance unit with the Sixth
Armored Division of the Third Army. Received the Silver Star and
two Bronze Stars for action. After the war I went to work for Stano-
lind Oil & Gas, then a division of Standard of Indiana, as a geologist in
Wichita, Kansas. In 1948 I left Stanolind to start a hydrocarbon ex-
ploration company for a small group of investors. For the last fifteen
years we have grown considerably with some success and currently have
offices in Houston, Texas, Oklahoma City, Oklahoma; Wichita, Kansas;
Denver, Colorado, Casper, Wyoming; and Calgary, Alberta, Canada.

In the realm of politics, it is my opinion that our greatest mistake
is the attempt to do all things for all people, Individual responsibility is
not regarded and as a result we have built up a vast federal bureaucratic
machine which is inefficient and corrupt. Political expediency is the
watchword, and a hundred billion dollar budget encourages political

blackmail of all varieties.
As a nation, our quality is being undermined by overzealous humani-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 553

tarians who disregard individual responsibiliry. Permissiveness and ex-
cusing are rampant. St. Augustine advocated that evil is willed, and with
this, I agree. It is far too easy to blame wrongdoing on environment

and parents. In spite of all this, 1 have great faith in my fellow man in
the U.S. in particular.

WINTHROP STRICKLAND JAMESON, JR.

    

HOME ADDRESS: 175 Somerset St., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gilman Paper Co., 111 W. 50th St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Mary Beaton, Nov. 27, 1940. cup: Patricia, Jan. 18, 1954.
OccUPATION: Sales representative — Standard Products, fine and specialty papers.
OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Harvard Club of Belmont.

MEMBER OF: Boston Paper Trade Association; Harvard Club of Belmont; Harvard
Varsity Club.

After graduating and one year of teaching and coaching, I enlisted in
the National Guard. Five years later the Army no longer owned me.

I then became a salesman selling packaging to the dairy industry. This
went along with slow but steady progress until inter-company politics
took over. I resigned at the age of forty-one and after twelve years in
the company’s womb — what a shock.

This traumatic experience turned out beautifully. I urge all those who
are “caught,” dissatisfied and afraid, to take the big step. 1 am now hap-
pier than ever and am seeing a new world. The combination of chem-
istry and paper is an exciting and fascinating process.

554 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ALAN NELSON JENKINS

 

HOME AND OFFICE aporess: Leeton Hill, Warrenton, Va.; 1507 Camino Del Rio,
Vero Beach, Fla.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939.
MARRIED: Barbara Hoffstot, Dec. 20, 1941. cHtLoren: T. Christopher, Dec. 23,

1942; Alan Nelson, Jr., Nov. 17, 1944; Lora Hamlen, Nov. 3, 1946; Marguerite
Martin, Nov. 6, 1954.

occuPaTION: Finance, self-employed.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Jenkins Arcade Company, 1940-1954; president,
Melaleuca Point Corporation, since 1963.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Pittsburgh Club.

After graduating from Harvard I took one year of law at the Univer-
sity of Virginia. Then I returned to the neighborhood of Harvard and
took one year of more law at Suffolk University.

With war upon us | looked for a position in the U.S. Navy. As an
ensign, USNR, passed from Indoctrination School through Air Combat
Intelligence School to my first assignment with VPB 115. Then to vari-
ous flying schools including Flight Instructors’ School at New Orleans,
Louisiana. Then I returned to Air Combat Intelligence duty with
Lighter-than-Air Squadron ZP 14 and ZP 24. Thence back to VPB and
VPB 93. Returned to civilian life at end of war but kept Navy contacts
through membership in Navy Composit Unit S-18 in Warrenton, Vir-
ginia, until retired July 1, 1962. From graduation from Harvard until

the present, except war years, I have been interested in various forms of
the field of finance.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 555

BOB ALBERT JESSUP

  

Sota nh

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 22813 Gary Lane, St. Clair Shores, Mich.

PREPARED AT: University High School, Iowa City, lowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; s.B. IN E.E. (Mass.
Inst. of Technology), 1950; s.m. (Univ. of Iowa), 1953; pH.p. (ibid.), 1959.

MARRIED: Grace Butler, 1942. cuHrpren: Eleanor Ann, March 31, 1943; Walter
Albert, Nov. 29, 1945; Jean, April 25, 1954; Andrew and Margaret (twins),
Oct. 6, 1961.

occupaTION: Professor and chairman, Dept. of Electrical Engineering, Detroit
Institute of Technology; partner, Troy Investment Company.

OFFICES HELD: Colonel, AFRes, and commander, 857Ist Air Force Reserve Re-
covery Group, Selfridge Air Force Base, Mich.; professor and chairman,
Dept. of Electrical Engineering, Detroit Institute of Technology, 1961-63,
assistant professor, 1959-61, instructor, 1959-61, Dept. of Electrical Engineer-
ing, State University of Iowa; president, Johnson County Chapter (Lowa),
1953-54, president, Dept. of Iowa, 1957-58, national councilman (lowa),
1958-59, Reserve Officers Association of the U.S.; sergeant-at-arms, 1963,
chairman, Youth Service Committee, 1964, Kiwanis International (Denby-
Detroit) ; president, Eastpointe PTO, St. Clair Shores, Mich., 1963.

MEMBER OF: Air Force Association; Engineering Society of Detroit; Society of
American Military Engineers; American Association of University Professors;
American Society for Engineering Education; Institute of Electrical and
Electronic Engineers; American Meteorological Society; American Mathe-
matical Society.

puBLications: “Feedback Methods in Circuit Theory,” pH.p. thesis, Reg. US.
Copyright, 1959, includmg a monograph entitled, “A Finite Basis for the
Operational Calculus.”

My continuing survey of job opportunities has become rather tiresome,
particularly the preparation of résumés and applications which require
one’s career to be presented in reverse. It is a refreshing change, then,
to be asked to write something in a forward direction for the 1939 Class
Report. While most of my ume at college was spent concentrating on
the three R’s, Harvard changed all that; since 1939 I have been concerned
with the three E’s: Education, Expenditures and Expectations. A year
of graduate physics at Princeton proved to me that my expectations
and those of the Princeton professors did not coincide. Also, in the
years preceding the onset of World War HL, I realized chat I had not
met the requirements in certain areas of vocational education, e.g. Peeling
Potatoes; so, voluntarily, I enlisted in the U.S. Army after being accepted
for Meteorological Training at M.LT., a package deal, The year at
M.LT. made me feel like a brand new second lieutenant, which I was

a yA RNTRMNE AH Mrmr ene emciremy PRN ci

556 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

on July 1, 1941. Shipped to Newfoundland as a weather officer, I soon
found that the weather was not the only object of my affections; I had
the singular honor of bringing home the first war bride. Factually, my
capacity for love and its consequent productivity resulted in one wife,
two children, four promotions and ten PCS’s before I returned to civilian
life late in 1946.

It was time to think about Expenditures. Since the G.I. Bill could not
be used to invest in A.T. & T., IBM, or Polaroid stock, I returned to
M.LT,, a real challenge. I became so engrossed in electrical engineering
that Harvard's proximity completely slipped my mind. At M.LT. they
had a rule of thumb to the effect that a student could attempt a course
three times before giving up, but ] never had to try anything more than
twice. In 1950, 1 took my M.I.T. degree and went to work for a year
with an electronics concern in Washington, D.C. Life in the Nation’s
Capital was attractive, but an aroused desire to know more about the
fundamentals and applications of mathematics was distracting. So, after
a junket to Japan and Korea during the summer of 1951, as a member
of a psy-warfare research team, I again became involved in education,
expenditures, and expectations — at the University of Iowa at lowa City.
As expected, a Master’s degree in mathematics materialized in 1953; when
opposition to further progress in pure mathematics developed, a research
project in applied mathematics opened up in the electrical engineering
department. As near as anyone could figure out, the objective of this
research was a vigorous (or was it rigorous?) exposition of Bode’s feed-
back theory suitable for undergraduate consumption. From 1956 to
1959, during a noticeable lull in communications with the administrative
hierarchy, most of my time was spent as a member of the instructional
staff in the electrical engineering department. After being crowned with
a Ph.D. in 1959, I continued teaching at the University of Jowa until
1961 when the family moved to Detroit in response to an unusual in-
vitation from the Detroit Institute of Technology; the contractual agree-
ment stipulated a free hand for three years to develop the electrical en-
gineering department at D.LT. (Salary stopped on July 1, 1963, with one

year remaining under original three-year contractual agreement. )
Concurrently with the move to Detroit, we contributed to the popu-
lation explosion and exceeded all expectations by increasing the total
number of tax exemptions to seven. (Let’s see if the figures add up
correctly: two for twenty-one years of marriage, plus one in 1943, plus
one in 1945, plus one in 1954, plus twins in 1961 totals seven, with no
further contemplated.) Eleanor Ann is in her third year at Wayne State
University and Walter is trying out Northwestern University’s brand
of speech, dramatics and music in his freshman year. In the meantime,
the married members of the family are marking time, wondering if there
na ever be a resurgence of moral responsibility in the educational pro-
ession.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 557

LEON ROSWELL JILLSON, JR.+

worene,

  
  

  

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 45 Lydecker St., Englewood, N.J.

JOHN MacLANE JOHANSEN

 

a

.
ow

go
oo
bo

 

HOME ADDRESS: Ponus Street, New Canaan, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 70 Elm St., New Canaan, Conn.; 306 E. 50th St., New York 22,
N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, pecREEs: s.B., 1939; B.aRCH., 1942.

MARRIED: Mary Lee Longcope, 1946 (divorced 1955); Mary Ellen Goode, 1955.
CHILDREN: Deborah, Aug. 19, 1947; Christen, Sept. 15, 1950.

occupation: Architect, owner of own firm, John M. Johansen, Architect; associate
professor of architecture, Columbia University.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Society of Architectural Historians.

PUBLICATIONS: Built in U.S.A., Museum of Modern Art, 1952; Art in America,
1961; articles in numerous professional journals in U.S.A. and abroad,

After graduation I spent three years at the Harvard Architectural
School, where I both worked and played more intensely than at college,
carried along by enthusiasm for the vigorous new movement of modern
Art and Architecture. The years of the war were spent in Washington,
D.C., working for the War-Housing Program. [ was married in 1946
and moved to New York City where I continued work in architecture.
In 1951 we moved to New Canaan, Connecticut, and [ started my own

558 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

architectural firm. The first years of getting started were rather lean
financially, but gradually with time, larger commissions, and some public
and professional recognition conditions improved.

Life with the growing children was a great joy; tremendously reward-
ing to give them what a father can, sharing enthusiasms in sports, craft
projects, guiding their education, seeing them find inevitably their own
selves and their own ways.

In 1955 I was married to Mary Ellen Goode, and a strong absorbing
professional life continued, with larger commissions entrusted to me.
Among these were a trade fair pavilion for the U.S.A. in Zagreb, Yugo-
slavia, which took me to that country during its construction; and the
design of the U.S. Embassy Building for the State Department in Dublin,
Ireland— now neatly completed.

Concurrent with the pursuit of my committed career in architecture
has been the pursuit of other arts— painting, sculpture, and music. In
the last twelve years it has been rewarding to teach and lecture on archi-
tecture at a number of universities and speak at various national conven-
tions. Travel, anytime and anywhere I can manage it, brings always the
inseparable pleasure of leisure and study of the great buildings.

Though somewhat alienated from matters of local interest and my
community, 1 hope in the long run and through my architectural career
to serve society. I am fortunate to have been born with some talent, am
grateful for my training at Harvard and look forward to a full personal
life and career between now and my Fiftieth Reunion.

ARTHUR LELAND JOHNS

  

“y

pean sea

aaa om tier Be So.

     

HOME ADDRESS: 38 Glen Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDHESS: 323 Park Square Bldg., Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; Lup, 1942.

MARHIED: Lorraine Driscoll, Sept. 19, 1942. curtoxen: Thomas Edward, Nov. 20,
1945; Michael Leland, March 19, 1948; Lisa, April 14, 1950; Chiara, Feb.
10, 1953; Patricia, Oct. 14, 1955; Arthur Leland, Jr, Jan. 19, 1957.

occupation: Attormey, trial of cases in the tort field, generally representing de-
fendants; trial counsel, Factory Mutual Insurance Co. of America.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Winchester Finance Committee, 1956-58; member, since
1959, chairman, 1962, Winchester School Committee; member, beard of di-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 559

rectors, Winchester Little League, Woburn Bank and Trust Company, Lewis
National Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Winchester Country Club.

Following Commencement I attended Harvard Law School graduating
in 1942. Those summers were passed playing and managing a baseball
team in the Twin State League of Vermont and New Hampshire.

My naval service commenced in 1942, Lorraine and I being married
at N.A.S., Pensacola, Florida, in September of that year. 1 remained in
the service until the end of 1945.

I started practising law in Boston and began trying cases. This still is
my field of endeavor. I presume the high point of my law career oc-
curred just this month (October, 1963 )when I was counsel in the trial
of that tort case wherein a jury returned the highest verdict ever re-
corded for a plaintiff in Massachusetts — one-half million dollars. I rep-
resented the defendant!

Lorraine and I engage in many community activities most of which
serve to take up more time than I like to devote to them. We golf to-
gether religiously twice a year — alternate shots. [ have retained an in-
terest in sports, during 1955 and 1956 managing the Winchester Little
League Team which competed in the Williamsport, Pennsylvania, Little
League World Series. We lost each year. I now play losing golf.

Our family of six children, three of each, keeps us busy. The eldest,
Tom, is a student at Vermont Academy for one year. He was graduated

from Winchester High School in 1963, there being captain of both the
hockey and golf teams. The others are now enrolled in the Winchester
public schools, and by reason of my position on the School Committee,
none has been expelled. Some of our group may or may not matriculate
at Harvard depending upon such things as SAT scores and finances.

I have served Winchester on its Finance Committee, of which I became
chairman, and presently am on the School Committee in my second term.
I was its chairman last year.

  
   

   
  

DERICK EMERY JOHNSON

    
 

HOME AppRESS: 130 E. 18th St., New York 3, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Storm King School, Cornwall-on-Hudson, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: s.B., 1939.

560 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

UNMARRIED.
occuPATION: Writer.

A brief exposure to the operations of a railroad ——- The New Haven
in its Boston offices — was my introduction to the business world, after
which I taught English and arithmetic to pre-preppers at the Fessenden
School in West Newton. In October of 1942 the Army claimed me,
and until March of 1946 I served in the Transportation Corps as a T/Sgt.
with Special Services, L&E. and Personal Affairs duty on troop transports
plving between New York City and the E.T.O.

Settled in New York City following the war. Occupational history
from that point includes a stint of copywriting for J. Walter Thompson,
traveling on the West Coast for McGraw-Hill and radio-television sta-
tion representation. During the last five years have been engaged in free-
lance writing.

Live in the city and think wistfully of the country. Have never felt
any strong urge to marry and raise a family. Enjoy people and my in-

dependence almost equally. Most consistent hobby, I suppose, has been
the breeding, training and showing of Cardigan Welsh Corgis, although
at the moment I do not have the time to devote to the ring manners of
my one remaining dog.

Can't say I feel appreciably different today from the way I did twenty-
five years ago or that the years have added a great deal in increased
wisdom.

HARRY MORTON JOHNSON ©

Prone
4
j
i
:

>

‘

    

fe
’ 4

 

HOME ApbRESS: 1603 Valley Rd., A2, Champaign, IH.

OFFICE appKeSS: Simmons College, Boston 15, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, prGkeES: a.B., cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1942; PH.D.,
1949.

MARKED: Lene Louise Edelstein, 1955 (divorced 1957),

occupation: Professor of sociology, Simmons College.

MemMBER OF: American Sociological Associations American Association of Uni-
versity Professors.

puBLications: Sociology: A Systematic Introduction, Harcourt, Brace and World,
1960.

My life has not been outwardly eventful. Classified 4-F, I was not in

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 561

the war. I have taught sociology at Simmons College since 1942. I also
taught for several years at the Massachusetts School (now College) of
Art. In the summer of 1961 I taught at the Salzburg Seminar for Amerl-
can Studies in Austria; and the next summer I taught at the Heim-
volkshochschule, Falkenstein, Germany. For part of both summers I
also spoke on Negro-white relations in the United States, in fifteen
German cities, under the auspices of the U.S, Information Agency. This
year (1963-64) I am a visiting professor at the University of Illinois,
Urbana. I like the Middle West (despite all the Goldwater stickers),
but I am looking forward to being in New York this summer where I'll
teach in the summer school at Columbia.

HOWARD AMES JOHNSON, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 69 School St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Winthrop Printing & Offset Co., Inc., 141 W. Second St., Boston
27, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Agnes Tyler Lines, Sept. 9, 1939. cHILDREN: Howard Ames, 3d, March
19, 1943; Mary Agnes (Sally), Dec. 1, 1940 (m. Charles J. Macdonald, 2nd,
June 13, 1959). GRANDCHILDREN: Carolyn Starr Macdonald, Jan. 9, 1961; ,
Charles J. Macdonald, 3d, June 24, 1962.

OCCUPATION: Lithography, branch manager, selling.
MEMBER OF: Rotary Club of Boston.

On September 9, 1939, 1 married Agnes T. Lines, and, as was the
custom, lived in an apartment in Cambridge. Thanks to my wife, we
had a daughter, Mary Agnes (Sally) on Dec. 1, 1940, and a son, Howard
Ames, 3d, on March 19, 1943.

In August, 1940, the Army found need for my services and I joined
the 211th Field Artillery as a second lieutenant. In August, 1944, I went
to the European Theatre of Operation with the Ninth Army. From
England we went through France and Belgium to Germany until the
war was over, and in October, 1945, I returned home as a captain with
the Bronze Star.

My wife and I purchased a home in Dedham and we still live in it.
Some sort of a record I assume. I am happy as a salesman in the lith-
ography business; my daughter is married and has a daughter and a

562 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

son, three and one and one-half years old respectively, my son is serving
in the Coast Guard, and my wife and I are happy together, proud grand-
parents and loving life.

My hobbies are my woodworking and the sea, on it and under it.
We have a small cabin cruiser based in Boston Harbor from which I

do quite a bit of scuba diving, I also help teach classes in diving
vear round.

" Thar’s about it except to add that I consider life has been good to me
since 1939.

JOHN AIMAR JORINSON

ice.
i
4

 

dag

——
fo
ime 2

4

ad
Sin Prin in hen ioe iA TO soc

   

wat

 

HOME appRESS: 6 Carol St., Stoneham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Johnson Paint Co., Inc., 355 Newbury St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED at: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: $.B., 1939.

wanniep: Catherine Shields, June 28, 1947. cuitpren: Robert Eric, Aug, 16,
1948; David Arthur, Oct. 1, 1950; John Steven, Oct. 26, 1951.

occupation: President, Johnson Paint Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

JOHN WESLEY JOHNSON t+

 

LAST MAILING ApbRESS: 7302 Falmouth St., Springfield, Va.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 563

LAURENCE SHELDON JOHNSON

       

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jesup & Lamont, 26 Broadway, New York 4, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Léonie A. Tilghman (Work), Jan. 2, 1948. cHi~oREN: Horace H.
Work, 3d and Frederic C. T. Work (twins), Aug. 29, 1938; Léonie A. Work,
Aug. 28, 1942; Laurence Sheldon, Jr., March 23, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Investment brokers; partner, New York Stock Exchange firm.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Salant & Salant, Inc., New York, since 1959, Interconti-
nent Finance Corporation, New York, since 1954, Flow Laboratories, Inc.,
Rockville, Md., since 1962; vice-president and director, Children’s Village,
Dobbs Ferry, N.Y., since 1960; member, Executive Council, CW. Post
College, Brookville, N.Y., since 1960; trustee, Milton Academy, since 1962;
member, board of managers, Harvard Club of New York, 1959-62; member,
board of directors, Associated Harvard Clubs, 1960-62; governor and treas-

- urer, The Brook,.New York, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: The Brook, River Club, Down Town Association, The Pilgrims,
Harvard Club of New York, all New York City; Piping Rock Club, Locust
Valley, N.Y.; Seawanhaka-Corinthian Yacht Club, Oyster Bay, N.Y.

I left college in 1939 with many fond memories, some very good
friends, some regrets and very little idea of what I wanted to do with
my life. My prewar years were passed without significant progress other
than an exposure to various parts of the country acquired in connection
with several “trainee” jobs with large corporations. My wartime career
was likewise undistinguished, although I had an interesting job as officer
in charge of the Naval Air Transport Service at the Washington National
Airport and later as “Muito Dignissimo, Chefe do NATS” in Porto
Alegre, Brazil.

After the war I formed a small import-export business in New York
with some friends, high hopes and small capital. In 1949 I simultaneously
folded this abortive enterprise, got married, acquired three wonderful
stepchildren and joined the investment counsel firm of Loomis, Sayles,
Inc., in their New York office.

Following a pleasant and instructive association of six years, I was
lured to Wall Street, where I have been ever since. I am now a partner
of Jesup & Lamont, where | hope to remain until they drag me out
feet first. Jesup & Lamont is a small but highly regarded firm with a
long and interesting history going back to 1877. For the past five years

mt rer

564 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

we have been refurbishing the firm's image, bringing in new blood
and expanding our facilities, mainly in institutional and investment ad-
visory services. We have also built up a good foreign business and
successfully negotiated what we believe to be the largest common stock
distribution in “Europe im recent years.

My family life has been extremely happy and anything but dull, as
witness the fact that one son has been a racing driver, his twin brother
is studying for a Master’s degree in music, my daughter 1 is a postulant in
a Benedictine convent, and my son, per SUT pes, is at Milton Academy.
For the past fifteen years we have lived in Locust V alley, on the north
shore of Long Island — near enough to the city for commuting, yet very

leasant country. As a family we have done a lot of cruising and
skiing, with golf as a pastime for my wife and myself. For some years
we have been season subscribers to the Opera. We have done our share
of traveling, both in this country and abroad, and hope to continue
this pattern.

I can't say that I have any strong “social, political or religious con-
victions” since I have always felt that a moderate position is justified.
This does not imply complacency or lack of conviction but a belief that
in the long run people who espouse extreme positions are usually
proved wrong.

My interest in Harvard remains strong, and I believe that as the leading
educational institution in the Free World, ic deserves the support of
all its graduates. I am also greatly interested in Milton Academy, of
which I am a trustee. My principal charitable activity is the Children’s
Village in Dobbs Ferry, New York.

I find life “approaching middle age” to be full of interest and challenge
and I wouldn't miss a minute of it.

THOMAS JOHNSON

Sng Fem aE 2%

  

HOME Abpress: 14 Washington Sq, Marblehead, Mass,

orrice, avpness: Eaton & Howard, Inc., 24 Federal St., Boston 10, Mass.

PREPAKED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, pecnnes: at, cum laude, 1939; muna. 1942.

manning: Mary Heard. April, 1949. cuiionen: Thomas M., Sept. 12, 1950; Stephen
8., April 24, 1995; Geoffrey W., July 24, 1957.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 565
occupsaTION: Investment management; vice-president, director of research, Eaton
& Howard, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, vice-president, president, Boston Investment Club, 1949-
52; treasurer, vice-president, president, Boston Security Analysts Society,
1953-56; vice-president, 1956—57, director, 1956-59, National Federation of

Financial Analysts Societies; chairman, Marblehead (Mass.) Chapter, Ameri-
can Red Cross, 1962-64; trustee, Anatolia College.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Musical Association; Downtown Club.

In 1939, upon graduation, I was quite uncertain as to my career in-
terests. In the process of exploring various possibilities, 1 had a brief
venture in commercial] banking, and then enrolled in the Harvard Busi-
ness School program which was most worthwhile and helped me select
the kind of work I most wanted to do — namely, investment management
and research. This work is concerned with everything that goes on in
the world. Of course, we narrow our sights down, to some degree, to
uncover the business and investment significance of world happenings,
but our outlook remains very broad. Very happily, my duties involve
some travel — last spring to Japan, where elements of youth, strength
and vigor combine, and in some ways remind me of the U.S. in the
twenties — and to some other places here and abroad.

My home life, with three vigorous boys and an active, imaginative
wife, is quite busy. We vacation in New Hampshire near Squam Lake,
ski; and sail in Marblehead. I can thank the boys for bringing out my very
latent interests in these activities. We all have a strong attachment for
New England, and it seems quite unlikely that anything will pull us
too far, or for very long, from this corner of the world.

DAVID MANN JONES

 

BORN: Jan. 7, 1917, Milford, Mass. parents: Grandville Reynard Jones, Gertrude
Mann.

PREPARED AT: Mendon High School, Mendon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. prcREEs: s.z., 1939; mop. (Tufts Coll.), 1944
MARRIED: Emily Moffat, cHILDREN: Matthew D.; Ellen L.

DIED: July 1, 1962, Warwick, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. David M. Jones, Chase Hill Road, Orange, Mass.

After an internship at Boston City Hospital, Jones was a fellow in
anesthesiology at the Lahey Clinic in Boston and he also studied at

366 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Columbia Medical Center in New York. He entered the private practice
of anesthesiology in Columbia, South Carolina, and since 1949 had con-
tinued his practice in Mendon, Afassachusetts, He served as anesthesiolo-
gist at Athol Memorial Hospital and at Emerson Hospital in Concord,
\fassachusetts. He was survived by his wife and children.

JOHN CLARK JONES, III

&

Tg pont Ser
om

   

  

: 7 :
\

fol

p 4 an

(ae

1 oS a ce i eh biti eins Se

   

HOME ApoRESS: 56 Hawes St., Brookline, Mass. 02146.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jones Advertising Agency, Inc., 43 Leon St., Boston, Mass. 02115.

PREPARED AT: Lenox School, Lenox, Mass.; Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Advertising agency executive.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Permanent Class Committee, Harvard Class of 1939,
elected 1949, re-elected 1959,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; 18-ft. Knockabout Class Association; Cape
Cod Squadron, USPS; Reserve Officers Association of the United States;
Brookline Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; National Sojourners; Heroes of ’76; DeMolay
Commandery, K.T.; Massachusetts Consistory, S.P.R.S.; Society of the Cincin-
nati (Successor); Society of Colonial Wars; Advertising Club of Boston;

National Industrial Advertisers Association; New England Marine Trade
Association.

rusuications: “A Minimum Sailing Primer,” copyrighted 1960.

The opportunity to work with classmates on various committees is
one of my very great pleasures. I have been honored by the Permanent
Class Committee to have been appointed and to have served on every
nominating committee under its jurisdiction since 1949. I believe ours ts
a great Harvard Class, and | am proud to be a member of it; our class-
mates are particularly alert to their responsibilities, to our Class and to
the Harvard community at large.

On the first of January, 5958, I sold my interest in my former adver-
tising company and incorporated a new advertising agency under my
own name, Jones Advertising Agency, Inc. Although we do not
specialize in any particular type of account, my interest in sailing and
boating has attracted many in the marine field.

I entered the service in August, 1942, through the Army Specialists
Corps; shortly being transferred to the Army Corps of Engineers and
serving as a landing bear instructor through 1943, The next two years

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 567

I was part of a training cadre for the Army Transportation Corps and
was awarded the Army Commendation Ribbon. During that time, a
virus attacked some of the motor nerves in my legs which still limits
my ambulatory activities somewhat. I was separated late in 1947 as a
major.

Ten years ago I converted a 26-ft. surfboat, which had been at the
Highland Light Coast Guard Station, to a cutter-rigged auxiliary, in
which my father and I have made short cruises. Three years ago I re-
purchased my old 18-ft. Cape Cod Knockabout and have finally brought
her back to racing trim.

My home port in summer is Menauhant, East Falmouth, Massachu-
setts, on Cape Cod. In 1955 I built a “winterized” home there which
I enjoy with my parents nearly every weekend throughout the year.
We call it “Quarterdeck.” Menauhant has a snug harbor, too, and I
extend an open invitation should you be cruising in the area. Dad and
I also shoot (at) ducks at Menauhant in season.

It could never be said I lead a socially-gay bachelor’s life, neither do
1 turn down invitations. When one is self-employed, office hours are
not fixed, I have learned. Politically, my preferences are the Republi-
can candidates, as a rule. And my religious affiliation is with the Protes-
tant Episcopal Church. If I must philosophize, I would state that the
older I become, the less important my possessions are to me. I like the
Dexter School motto: “Our Best Today, Better Tomorrow” . . . that

we may contribute to the happiness and well-being of those with whom
we associate.

RAYMOND GEYER JONES

 

HOME ADDRESS: 9305 Rosewood St., Annandale, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Pentagon, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Canon City High School, Canon City, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. prEGREE: s.B., 1939.

Marriep: Raymonde Veber, Nov. 5, 1945. cuitpren: Raymond Veber, 17; Philippe
G., 16; Maryse N., 9.

occupation: Colonel, U.S. Army; presently U.S, Adviser to the J3, Joint General

Staff, Republic of Vietnam.

MEMBER OF: Army Aviation Association of America; Association of the U.S,
Army; Army-Navy Country Club.

568 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

After leaving Harvard | was employed by the American Brake Shoe

Company for about a year and a half as a special apprentice in New
ersev, Buffalo, Toledo and Baltimore. I was called to active duty with
the zd Armored Division at Fort Benning when Pearl Harbor Day caught
me. Became a regular officer in 1942 and spent the next three years in
North Africa, Sicily, England, France and Germany mostly in a com-
mand of a battery of self-propelled artillery.

I met and married the reigning women’s tennis champion of France in
Paris in 1945. We now have two big boys interested in Harvard and a
little girl.

Continued my service in the Army following World War II and have
since held a rather tvpical assortment of command and staff jobs both
in the United States and in Germany again. Have most recently re-
turned from a tour in Vietnam as an American adviser. Have became
qualified as an aviator and parachutist. Expect to serve a tour in Wash-
ington for the second time and then — we'll see. Have found a military
career satisfying, varied and interesting. Strongly feel that the broader
scope of activities which these days falls to the military indicates a
need for more Harvard men in this career field. We are but a handful

now.

ROBERT WOODROW JORDAN

a.

  
   

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Gallows Lane, New London, Conn.

orrice appness: Dept. of Philosophy, Connecticut College, New London, Conn,

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.; Thayer Academy, Braintree,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecrees: a.B., 1939; A.M., 1947; PH.D., 1950.

Marnizp: Jane Wellman Baymore, Oct. 20, 1943.

occuPATION: Professor of philosophy and chairman, Department of Philosophy,
Connecticut College.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of philosophy, University of the South, Sewanee,
Tenn., 1950-52; associate professor of philosophy, 1955-62, professor of
philosophy, 1962-63, chairman, Department of Philosophy, 1955-63, University
of New Hampshire; professor of philosephy, chairman, Department of Philoso-
phy, Connecticut College, since 1965.

memenr oF: American Philosophical Association, Metaphysical Society of America;
Southern Society for the Philosophy of Religion; Association for Realistic
Philosophy; Guild of Scholars of Episcopal Church; Society for Existentialism

and Phenomenology.
PUBLICATIONS: Articles in various literary and philosophical journals,

erst SEY CU TI EI TOC

nn

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 569

RICHARD EVANS JUDAY

  
  

  

t

HOME ADDRESS: 813 Ronald Ave., Missoula, Mont.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Montana State University, Missoula, Mont.
PREPARED AT: Wisconsin High School, Madison, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pECREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; pH.p. (Univ. of
Wisconsin) , 1943.

UNMARRIED,
OCCUPATION: Professor of chemistry, Montana State University.

OFFICES HELD: President, Montana Academy of Sciences, 1963-64; chairman,
Montana Section, American Chemical Society, 1959.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi; American Chemical Society; Montana Academy of
Sciences; New York Academy of Sciences; Alpha Chi Sigma.
PUBLICATIONS: Several research publications in organic chemistry.

After obtaining a Ph.D. in chemistry and spending four years in
industry, I found that years of low pressure existence punctuated by
three-month vacations had ruined me for an industrial career. As a
consequence I returned to the field of education where I have remained.
This sketch appears a bit brief, but compared with your enclosed
sample, my existence has been much too dull to warrant further ex-
position.

Since I don’t have anything really original to contribute to the
O tempora, O mores category, | shall pass there also.

WILLIAM JOYCE KADLEC +

   

a ae

LAST MAILING aDprEss: 50 Center Drive, Old Greenwich, Conn.

370 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

SIDNEY LOUIS KAHN, JR.

‘
¥
é

 

aR TEE NEE TPE RE EMERY ARRON ge
‘ te
., .
rete
s

hy 4.

 

St

HOME ADDRESS: 4432 Park Ave. Memphis 17, Tenn.

orice aporess: Paper Products Co., 3300 Jackson Ave., Memphis, Tenn.

PREPARED AT: Baylor School, Chattanooga, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: a.B., cum laude, 1939.

MaRRieD: Maxine Mever, Oct. 13, 1944. cHrtpren: Sidney Louis, 3d, Aug. 13,
1946; William Allan, May 27, 1949; Bruce Meyer, Feb. 28, 1952.

occcpaTion: . President, Paper Products Company, wholesale paper distributing
business.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Advisory Board, Hudson Pulp & Paper Corporation, since
1959, Union Bag-Camp Paper Company, since 1963, Chippewa Paper Products
Company, since 1962; secretary, Harvard Club of Memphis, 1949-50; presi-
dent and chairman, Mississippi Paper Company; member, Development
Cabinet, Temple Israel.

MEMBER OF: Ridgeway Country Club; Harvard Club of Memphis.

When you start thinking about your personal activities, achievements,
and progress for a period spanning a quarter of a century, it would
at first appear that they should be of such quantity, merit, and diversity
as to require many printed pages to summarize and describe adequately.
Yet, in retrospect, these twenty-five years, in spice of all the abnormal
times they have encompassed, have produced just about the same results
I might have anticipated in 1939.

OF course spending four years in the Navy is an item that would
have been somewhat less than likely to have appeared in the conventional
crystal ball. But, in spite of, and, perhaps, even due to this unforeseen
dislocation of civilian activities, I feel that my position along the path
is just about where it should be. Certainly, there is not now evident in
my professional or financial standing any inferiority or relative position
due to war service.

I have been blessed with a superb family, including three sons who
are my pride and joy. Fortunately, we enjoy many activities together,
and I'm never “too busy” for the boys. We fish and swim and play
tennis (yes, T still play “regularly, if not spectacularly) together. We
attend athletic events in stadia as well as in our own yard, and we spend
many hours in discussions of Stan Musial, John F. Kennedy, Charles De
Gaulle, Martin Luther King, Cuba, fiscal policies, defense planning, gold
outflow or any other topic with which any of us might: momentarily
be concerned. There will be plenty of time in later years for chings

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 571

that can estrange a father from his sons, in terms of extremely time-
consuming activities. If I do nothing else worthwhile during my life,
it is my deepest hope that the time we've spent together will have
contributed extensively to the growth and development of their char-
acters and will have started them on paths that will lead toward their
making substantial contributions to the betterment of their associates
and their community,

My business has grown and prospered over the years, and we are now
settling last minute details involved in making a move to new and more
modern quarters the first of the year.

Trends toward socialism, paternalism and excessive dependence on
Uncle Sam to replace initiative, earnest endeavor, and logical thought
and analysis must disturb the thinking man who gives any consideration
and recognition to the values that brought America to its position in
the world today. We cannot adopt a policy of “leave it to John” in any
field. We must not abdicate our individual responsibilities in any area
of our lives— political, sociological or parental. It’s easy to follow
the crowd and shirk one’s duties, yet if we want, for our children and
grandchildren, a better world, who is better equipped to help provide
it than the college graduate — especially the Harvard man? Somehow
or other it will be a better world, better in spite of every effort on the
part of the government to stifle initiative, and I want to try to make
just a slight contribution to tomorrow.

WALTER KAITZ

    

HOME appreEss: 2572 Jacobs St., Hayward, Calif.

OFFICE apprEss: Barton, Farrow & Barton, Suite 1506, Latham Square Blidg.,
Oakland 12, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., LL.B. (Univ. of California).

MARRIED: Idell McMullin, May 3, 1947. cHitpren: Spencer Robert, Sept. 22, 1948;
Carolyn Idell, Aug. 25, 1951; Patricia Margaret, Feb. 2, 1954; Gwendolyn
Sharon, March 22, 1958.

occupation: General law practice with specialization in legislative representation
and real estate law.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of San Francisco; American, Alameda County and
Southern Alameda County Bar Associations; State Bar of California: Sertoma
Club of San Leandro; Boston Latin School Association; East San Francisco

572 HARVARD CLASS OF I 939

Bay Retired Officers Association; Phi Alpha Delta Law Fraternity; Hayward
Area Concert Association.

Between my years at Harvard and finding my niche in life seven
years of Army life intervened. I spent nearly two years with Patton’s
Third Army in combat and earned a Purple Heart. After recovering
from the surprise that I was still alive, I went to the other side of the
world and “matriculated” for two years in the Occupation Army of
Douglas MacArthur.

The best thing that ever happened to me took place in Japan when :
I met my wife-to-be and was married in Tokyo. This also occasioned
the greatest change in my way of life because it made me realize that
I must settle down and find my place in the community life of the
U.S.A. Thereupon I went to Boalt Hall (U.C. School of Law at Berke-
ley) which I enjoyed immensely. During this time my first two children
were born.

I am now happy in the practice of law and do considerable legislative
representation before both houses of the California Legislature. I have
enjoyed “lobbying” for such interests as real estate, community tele-
vision, broadcasters, escrow companies and county employees.

The Blue Cross recently published the following statistics: “If you
are a lawyer, you are on two community committees; eat too fast, play
golf, swim; have three and one-quarter children; belong to four
civic/fraternal organizations; drive too fast; read one and three-quarters
newspapers a day.” As the typical Harvard non-conformist and indi-
vidualist, I deviate from the norm in that I do not play golf; 1 have four
children; belong to at least eight civic and fraternal organizations; do
not drive too fast; and read at least three newspapers a day.

BERNARD KALMAN

 

Home appress: 5 Alden St, Newton Center, Mass,

orfick aporess: Hodgman Rubber Co., 9 Tripp St., Framingham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939,

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Controller.

OFFICES HELD: Master-elect, Shawmut Lodge, AF. & A.M.; director and treasurer,
Boston YMHA Alumni Association; director, Boston YMHA-Hecht House.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 573

MEMBER OF: Friends of Boston Symphony Orchestra; Boston Museum of Fine

Arts; Scottish Rite, Valley of Boston; Aleppo Temple of Shrine; Air Reserve
Association.

Since graduation have worked for four medium-size companies in
the Greater Boston area, in administrative capacities, as controller and
general manager. Served with Air Force from 1941 to 1946, mainly with
8th Air Force in the European Theatre; and again with U.S. Air Force,
1951-52, during Korean War. Remained active in Air Force Reserve
until 1961, at which time completed requirement for retirement.

Remain independent in thinking, wear no party label. Am proud on
the one hand about what this country has accomplished in the twenty-
five years since 1939 and am concerned with the present leadership and
philosophy of government on the other hand, particularly in terms of
where we will find ourselves fifty years from 1939. Still think of my
four years at Harvard as four of the best years of my life.

ALLAN HENRY KALMUS

  
   

  

HOME apprEss: 410 E. 57th St., New York 22, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 445 Park Ave., New York 22, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, Riverdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; s.m. (Colum-
bia Univ.) , 1940. :

marRieD: Jane Waring, Sept. 9, 1944. CHILDREN: Susan Jane, Feb. 19, 1947; John
Allan, Sept. 22, 1949,

OCCUPATION: Public relations; president, own firm.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Overseas Press Club; International Radio and
Television Society; Broadcast Pioneers, Inc.; Public Relations Society of
America; Fairview Country Club.

PuBLICATIONS: Author, numerous articles on broadcasting, public relations.

After Harvard a year at the Columbia University Graduate School
of Journalism and a Master’s degree. During the war, to Washington,
D.C., and service with the War Production Board and the Office of War
Information, thence to New York as a news editor at Radio Station
WQXR, now owned by the New York Times. For almost two years I
served both as news editor and publicity director for the station and
then joined the National Broadcasting Company to become publicity
director of the television network. During that period, the new medium

574 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

was born —an exciting eight-year term in which America’s most potent
disseminator of information came of age. Then to Lever Brothers Com-
pany as publicity director for a little under two years, after its move
trom Cambridge to New York.

Since then | have headed my own public relations firm, representing
many kinds and sizes of corporations, industrial firms, products, tele-
vision properties and enterprises. Perhaps the most singularly exciting
moments came in the years 1962 and 1963 when our agency was ap-

inted to handle birthday salutes to the late President Kennedy. We
worked closely with the White House and were exposed to the dynam-
ism, drive and lofty goals that were the hallmarks of the President
personally and of his administration.

A most remarkable woman, my wife of nearly twenty years. After a
long career in broadcasting and public relations, she currently holds the
position of press secretary to New York’s Mayor Robert F. Wagner.
More important, she is the mother of our promising teen-agers: Susan,
seventeen, and John, fourteen. Dinner conversations run on the strong
side— usually a stimulating four-way dialogue in which the points of
view of the teen-aged group largely prevail. Both youngsters attend
schools in New York.

Throughout all, the one continuous thread of my past twenty-five
years has been Harvard —a hold on one’s loyalties and one’s life purposes
that is seemingly unquenchable.

CHARLES ARTHUR KANE

   

HOME ADDRESS: Woodcrest Road, Boxford, Mass.
orrice ADDKESS: Boston University School of Medicine, 80 E. Concord St., Boston
» lass,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., 1939; uD, cum laude, 1943.

MARRIED: Mildred Elizabeth Johnson, Sept. 8, 1944. cHmoreEN: Charles Arthur, Jr.,
Aug. 24, 1947; Priscilla E., Nov. 27, 1949: Richard J., Feb. 6, 1953.

occupation: Physician; professor of neurology, Boston University School of
Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Harvard Medical School, since 1951; professor, Boston
University School of Medicine, since 1956; president-elect, American Academy
of Neurology, 1963; co-chairman, National Committee for Research in Neurol-
ogic Disorders, 1961.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Middlesex East Medical Society;

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 575
Massachusetts Medical Society; American Academy of Neurology; Sigma

Xi; Alpha Omega Alpha; Indian Ridge Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Three chapters in textbooks; thirty plus scientific articles in fields
of tropical medicine and neurology.

Following graduation, spent four years at the Harvard Medical School,
without doubt the best in the country/world. Then, after an unforget-
table (and sleepless), accelerated internship at the Boston City Hospital
(IV Medical Harvard Service) received telegram assigning me to
“Welfare Island.” Instead of a coral atoll in the Pacific, this turned
out to be situated in the middle of the East River at 57th Street, New
York City! There, with Irv London and Gene Knox, learned the basic
principles of chemotherapeutic research under Dr. James M. Shannon,
now director of the sprawling, billion-a-year budgeted National Insti-
tutes of Health. Then to Moore General Hospital, North Carolina, for
clinical trials of critically-needed antimalarial drugs. Finally, assigned
to 107th GH and at port of embarkation when Truman’s fateful decision
probably changed the course of my life, and many others!

After three years in the Army, spent a “refresher” year as a resident
in medicine at Lakeside Hospital, Cleveland, Ohio, and completed
neurological specialty training at Cornell and the V.A. Hospital, Bronx,
New York. Passed American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology in
December, 1950. After toying with the idea of settling in Denver or
Oklahoma City, decided to return to Boston and started academic
career at Harvard Medical School/Boston University School of Medicine
in September 1951. Have never regretted this.

Since then, have ascended the ladder slowly, distressed at the rapid
passage of time, by the necessity to compromise earlier research-ambi-
tions, and by the minor frustrations of commuting to Boston from thirty
miles north! -

Have enjoyed close association with all four classes in the Medical
School, but getting bogged down administratively. Tried group practice,
but reverted to solo practice as a consultant, part-time, two years ago.
For the past two years, have become a lobbyist, testifying for Neurology
Research Budget in excess of $100 million last year! This means ten to
twelve trips to Washington, D.C., a year, but many stimulating associ-
ations.

In order, and without a doubt, would rate my major interest as:
FAMILY, career, golf (handicap: 8), reading, photography, classical
music.

Have served as secretary of Appeals Board and president of the P.T.A.
(a much-maligned institution in the bewildering complex of modern
education),

Attend (Catholic) church regularly with annual retreat and sing, not
well but loudly, in the choir, Am delighted with the new Ecumenical
Spirit in Rome — hope it won’t be stymied by the Curia.

First foreign trip (Lima, Peru) this year in October sounds exciting.
Voted for John Kennedy and would do so again; I’m just as puzzled as
he is as to why things haven’t gone as well as anticipated. Most disturb-
ing recent reading: Baldwin, The Fire Next Tine.

All in all, it’s been a quarter-century filled with challenges, ups and
downs, but the emphasis is definitely on the positive side of the ledger!

576 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ROBERT KAPLAN

   

ANB AE ND 6 5 aE NCATE a Be eI Saha. wie 9i25

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3102 Esther Drive, Amberley Village, Cincinnati 13, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: John Shillito Co., Seventh and Race Streets, Cincmnati 2, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B,, magna cum laude, 1939; Master of
International Affairs (Columbia Univ.) , 1948.

marrieD: Elaine Rose Lichtenberg, July 11, 1943. cHizpren: Susan Andrea, March
2, 1947; Jennifer Sara, July 14, 1951; Madge Juliette, July 6, 1953.

occupaTIoN: Research director, John Shillito Company, department store, Cincin-
nati Division of Federated Department Stores, Inc.

oFFices HELD: President, 1963-64, former vice-president and treasurer, Cincinnati
School Foundation; chairman, Foundation Committee on School Finance,
1959-62, New Frontiers Forum of Hamilton County, 1962-63, 1963-64; mem-
ber, executive board, Democrats United, 1963-64; Precinct executive, 1962-
64; chairman, Geographic Division, Greater Cincinnati United Fund Cam-
paign, 1964 (previously serving in various chairmanship roles at district and
divisional levels}; member, Budget Review Committee, Community Chest of
Greater Cincinnati; member of board, since 1957, former vice-president and
treasurer, senior vice-president, 1963-64, Temple Sholom; member, board of
trustees, Jewish Community Center, 1962-63, 1963-64; member, Committee of
100, Citizens Committee on Youth; chairman, Jewish Committee on Scouting,
Dan Beard Council; delegate te Ohio State House Conference on Education,
1958, 1960, member of Organizing Committee, 1958; member, three-man
task force to study financing problems of WCET, Cincinnati Educational TV
Foundation, 196] (continuing to serve in advisory capacity).

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Marketing Association; National Asso-
ciation of Business Economists; Cincinnati Council on World Affairs; Citizens
School Committee; Cincinnati Civic Club; Cincinnati Athletic Club; Cincin-
nati School Foundation; Hamilton County Good Government League; Demo-
cals United; New Frontiers Forum; Jewish Community Center; Temple

olom,

Since 1939 my life has been a mixture of strict application to business
affairs, in this case department store problems, and involvement in
reater or less degree in community and public service. The chronology
is as follows. From 1939 to 1941 | was a merchandising trainee at the
John Shillico Company, a division of Federated Department Stores, Inc.,
having achieved by August, 1941, the position of assistant buyer in
charge of the Stationery Department. However, the Draft summoned
me among the first in 1941, and I found myself involved in military
service until April, 1946, including two and a half years in the European
Theatre with the Air Service Command in various command and staff
capacities. I left the service as a major in the Air Forces in April, 1946.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 577

Before going overseas in September, 1943, | met and married Elaine
Rose Lichtenberg (Sarah Lawrence 45), of New York City.

At this point, idealistic as 1 was (and still am), I decided to return
to my first interest, international affairs (my major at college) and
prepare myself for an active role in this area. This required entering
the first class of the newly-formed School of International Affairs at
Columbia University, where I worked under such authorities as Gray-
son Kirk, Philip Jessup, and Philip Mosely, specializing in international
administration. Upon receiving the degree, Master of International
Affairs, in 1948 I was lucky enough to obtain employment at the United
Nations, then at Lake Success, first in the Budget and Administration
Division and then in the Department of Economic Affairs. In the latter
Department, I became the administrative officer in 1949 for the newly-
formed Technical Assistance Administration. My job covered the
drafting of budgets, the organizing of missions of experts to under-
developed countries, arranging fellowships, etc. We operated with
limited financial resources. Moreover, Soviet intransigence was becom-
ing more and more of a roadblock to United Nations progress, particu-
larly after Korea. Much of my initial idealism was dimmed, although
I felt then and still feel that the United Nations is an institution that in
the end must succeed.

Under these circumstances, when Federated approached me in No-
vember, 1951, to return to the department store field, I accepted the
offer with the intention of doing something connected with the inter-
national field even while in business. I joined the home office of Federated
in Cincinnati and eventually became assistant and then associate re-
search director. In 1959 I moved across the street to become research
director for Shillito’s. These thirteen years in department stores, par-
ticularly with a chain such as Federated, have been challenging. These
have been the years of Federated’s greatest growth. As part of the man-
agement team in one of the larger divisions, 1 have got into almost
every facet of the operation, have dealt with most of the really challeng-
ing problems that have confronted department stores in this com-
petitive age.

At the same time, as indicated by the offices and memberships listed
above, I have been able to devote a large part of my life to community
and public service. My interest in the problems of our schools began
with my assistance to Ralph Lazarus in his capacity as chairman of the
Sub-Committee on Education of the Committee for Economic Develop-
ment. One of the major recommendations of that report was the need
for local citizen participation. The Cincinnati School Foundation, the
citizens’ group studying and reporting on school problems in Cincinnati,
offered me the opportunity and I became increasingly active, particu-
larly in the field of school finance,

A second area of more recent activity has been the political arena.
I have been one of the leaders in a movement to reform the local Demo-
cratic Party, having become engaged as one consequence in a battle with
the regular organization, It was my contention that the Democratic
program at every level of government was not being adequately pre-
sented and promoted in this area, I found several others who agreed
with me. We formed the New Frontiers Forum as one part of our

578 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

efforts to revitalize the Party. This has opened up to me, a businessman,
a whole new world of people and activities. My company has been
willing to give me the time to engage in this political activity. For
without this it would be an impossibility. Whatever the outcome of
our efforts, this has been an enriching experience for me.

My interests in the international field have been maintained through
extensive reading, attendance at and participation in discussions, appear-
ances in various radio and TV forums. In the religious sphere, I have
been active almost from its inception in the establishment and building
of a new Reform Jewish Temple in Cincinnati. This has presented
challenging problems, particularly in the financial sphere, in the solu-
tion of which I have played some role. Increasing degrees of responsi-
bility in the annual United Fund (Red Feather) campaigns (currently
chairman of the entire residential campaign) have been part and parcel
of my business responsibilities.

Thus, after twenty-five years, on looking back I can only conclude
that my life has been anything but cut and dried, that I have been
lucky enough to have a happy family life (including a lovely wife
and three charming daughters), and to have achieved a certain degree
of economic security, while at the same time participating in the kind
of public and community service activities which have always been of
interest to me. Moreover, it has been through these activities that
T have been able to pursue those values I consider most important in life.

ALEXANDER KARANIKAS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2501 N, Spalding Ave., Chicago 47, lil.

OFFICE ADRESS: University of Illinois, Navy Pier, Chicago, Hl.

PREPARED AT: Goffstown High School, Goffstown, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREES: 4.8., cum laude, 1939; a.m. (Northwestern
Univ.) , 1950; pu.p. (ibid.) , 1953.

marnieD: Helen J. Karagianes, Jan. 2, 1949. cutLpREN: Marianthe Vaia, June 4,
1957; Diana Christine, Sept. 9, 1963.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of English, University of Illinois.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Manchester (N.H.) Veterans Council, 1946-47; district
secretary, Order of Ahepa, 1946-47, , ,

MEMBER or: American Association of University Professors; Modern Language
Association; P.T.A,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 579

PUBLICATIONS: In Praise of Heroes, a book of war poetry, 1946; articles, poems
and short stories in various journals.

My Harvard was that of the threadbare student struggling to main-
tain scholarship grades, hoping for better days, and tryimg to reform
the depressed society which kept my family poor. In heritage, however,
I was rich: as a boy my father had been a shepherd on Mt. Olympus. I
compensated for my lack of contact with the ancient gods by coming
to Harvard. Being the second of seven sons, I could be spared for a
higher education.

For ten years, until my marriage in 1949, I had various occupations,
none very lucrative, each in the end proving to have been a false start.
I worked in the office of a shoe factory for awhile, wrote on the WPA
Writers Project, acted as a recreation leader, and then became a publicity
director for 60,000 organized workers in the Allegheny Valley, north
of Pittsburgh. For ten months I edited a newspaper, was a radio news
commentator, and spoke before many groups. For helping to spur
both labor and industry in the war effort I won a couple of citations
from the government.

My military service lasted nearly four years, most of them spent with
the Cold Weather Testing Detachment stationed at Ladd Field, Fair-
banks, Alaska. One of my duties was to write the scripts for two movies
about cold weather operations; another was to prepare for the Chief
of Air Staff a history of the AAF in the Arctic. I passed two OCS boards
but was never sent to become an officer. After the war, it did not
matter much anymore.

My book of poetry, In Praise of Heroes, was quite well received when
it appeared in 1946. Still unmarried, I became very active in New
Hampshire veterans groups, fraternal organizations and local political
committees. For over a year I worked as a radio news commentator,
hoping thus to build a foundation for politics. When the Truman
Doctrine was in hearings I spoke against it in Washington before the
Senate Foreign Relations Committee. In 1948, as an independent candi-
date, I ran for Congress in the First District in New Hampshire. My
vote was very small, but my disappointment vanished in the light of
new prospects. I was engaged to be married.

The girl was Helen Karagianes of Chicago, a teacher at Wright
Junior College with an A.M. from the University of Chicago. We
were married in January, 1949. In a few months we made a very
happy decision: to use my ample G.I. Bill credits toward graduate
work in English, which had been my major at Harvard.

My second campus career, at Northwestern University in Evanston,
was exceedingly pleasant, It meant one rewarding experience after
another, including teaching there as a graduate assistant and as an in-
structor. I got my Master’s in 1950 and Ph.D. in 1953. Since 1954 I
have been teaching at the Chicago campus of the University of Illinois.
Except for maternity leaves, my wife has continued to teach at Wright
Junior College.

We are thinking of another move, however, to some university posi-
tion in New England. Each summer when we come east we enjoy

such things as picking blueberries on Uncanoonuc Mountain, swimming

580 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

at Newfound Lake, and sunbathing at York Beach. Such a move would
bring us closer to the wild forest, the apple orchard, and the cottage
that we own about an hour's drive north from Cambridge. By we, I
mean myself and my wife Helen, our six-year-old daughter, Marianthe
Vaia, and our second daughter, Diana Christine, born on September

9, 1963.

HARRY KAUFFMAN

    

HOME appRESS: 664 National Hwy., Lavale, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 Baltimore St., Cumberland, Md.

PREPARED AT: Allegany High School, Cumberland, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: S.B., 1939; LL.B., 1942.

MARRIED: Evelyn R. Weissman, Feb. 8, 1942, cHILDREN: Jack Barry, Dec. 16, 1942;
Dale, May 6, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Attorney; partner, Cumberland Cloak & Suit Company, Kauffman
Realty Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Mayor’s Citizens Advisory Committee, since 1963, vice-
chairman, Upper Potomac Industrial Development Company, since 1963,
Downtown Cumberland Business Association, since 1961, co-chairman, Upper
Potomac Industrial Development Company, since 1963, Downtown Cumber-
land Business Association, since 1961, co-chairman, Taxpayers & Property
Owners’ League, since 1961 (all in Cumberland, Md.); chairman, Lavale
Sanitary Commission, Lavale, Md., 1959-61.

MEMBER OF: Rotary; American, Maryland and Allegany County Bar Associations;
Western Maryland Lodge, B’nai B'rith.

PUBLICATIONS: “Impeachment and Rehabilitation of Witnesses in Maryland,” Mary-
land Law Review.

“Harvard Sons” on the opposite page really made me pause and con-
sider. My son, Jack, is now a senior at the University of Michigan.
He applied to Harvard, having had good college boards, excellent high
school grades and records, etc., but apparently was not quite “good”
enough. I doubt exceedingly if many of us would have been admitted
to Harvard under present day standards — certainly not I.

After graduation from law school in June, 1942, I was “selected” for
the Army as a private. I graduated OCS in January, 1943, served about
a year in England, France and Belgium, and was separated, January, 1946.

For about ten years 1 devoted ninety percent of my time to law, and
ten percent of my time to business. I now devote ten percent of my
time to law, forty percent to business and fifty percent to community

ent gear tiem Te nee Oe AP EAP SLE SFTP TE ASAT POT TPO a

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 581

affairs (it seems). Frankly, after listing “offices held” on the opposite
page, it frightened me. There were several I did not list because they
similarly seemed “full of sound and fury, signifying nothing.” I imagine,
however, many communities similar to ours are undergoing the pangs
of “renewal,” and many of my classmates find themselves in a similar
position.

My son intends to enter law school next year, and my daughter
college. I would like to be able to read their autobiographical sketches

twenty-five years from their graduation, as both are infinitely more
clever than 1.

PHILIP KAZON

“”
9
+
&
3

    

saci RINE elt ctl SA A Siac na dtc

  

HOME ApopRESS: 1230 Park Ave., New York 28, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Graubard & Moskovitz, 40 Wall St., New York 5, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Rutland High School, Rutland, Vt.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: s.B., 1939; LuB., 1942.

MARRIED: Miriam Newman, June 20, 1954. cup: Leslie Barbara, April 4, 1955.
occupation: Lawyer; member of firm of Graubard & Moskovitz.

MEMBER OF: City Club of New York; Association of the Bar of the City of New
York; New York County Lawyers Association.

WALTER FRANCIS KEARNS, JR. t

YG

    
 

x

LAST MAILING appRESS: 27 E. 62d St., New York, N.Y, 10021.

582 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

WILLIAM PERRY KEAT

  

( . ,
* ioG
2 (

 

C

Home aporess: 1 Newbury Rd., Port Washington, Long Island, N.Y.

orrice appress: Lease Plan International Corp., 9 Chelsea Pl., Great Neck, NLY.

PREPARED AT: Manhasset High School, Manhasset, Long Island, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936, 1937-1939. pEGREES: a.8., curm laude, 1939; M.B.a.,
1941; tus. (New York Univ.), 1952.

marrieD: Ida Meistermann, June 23, 1956. cHiLDREN: Catherine Lilian, Dec. 19,
1957; William David, July 2, 1959.

occupation: Attorney-at-Law, specializing in marketing law (advertising, broad-
casting, leasing); secretary and general counsel, Lease Plan International
Corporation, an international leasing company. ,

OFFICES HELD: 1963 Candidate for Town Councilman, Town of North Hempstead,
Nassau County, Long Island, New York Democratic Party; Committeeman,
Port Washington, Nassau County Democratic Committee, 1960-63; secretary,
1960, president, 196], director, 1962, Southport Civic Association, Port
Washington; member, New York bar, Federal bar (Southern, Eastern and
Northern Districts, New York), U.S. Supreme Court bar, since 1953; mine-
sweeping commanding officer, Pacific Amphibious Invasions, World War I],
1941-46; commander, U.S. Naval Reserve, since 1955; chairman, Port Wash-
ington, 1961, Northern Nassau County, 1962-63, National Foundation-March
of Dimes; vice-chancellor, Miller Inn, 1951-52.

MEMBER OF: Trinity Episcopal Church, Roslyn, N.Y. (vestryman, lay reader,
Sunday School teacher); Phi Delta Phi Legal Fraternity; Rotary Club of
Great Neck (secretary 1962-63); American Society of Corporate Secretaries;
Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Varsity Club; Harvard Club of Long
Island Schools Committee; Harvard Business School Club of New York;
Plandome ( N.Y.) Old-Timers (director); Village Bath Club, Manhasset, N.Y.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Strategy of the Wedge,” “The Shock of Sputnik,” “We Can’t
Live Alone,” “Immunity of Public Officers from Personal Tort Liability in
Private Suit,” “Aspects of the Problems of Organization of Independent Regula-
tory Commissions,” “The Impossible Happens at Sea,” “Lease or Buy?’’, ‘‘Man-
hattan Medley — Your TV Weekly.”

Two years at the Business School followed my graduation. When
France fell during my studies there, my interest moved to the European
War. I enlisted in the Naval Reserve V-7 program and went on active
duty in September, 1941. Five years later as a veteran combat mine-
sweeping commanding officer [ was released to inactive duty.

Thereupon I served in the Procter & Gamble advertising department
for two years, all the while enjoying life in the Ohio River city and in
the Kentucky blue grass country.

The lure of the West prevailed and J moved to California where an

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 583

opportunity to enter the beverage bottling industry with naval associates
loomed temporarily. After a brief sojourn in radio selling and writing
in beautiful Sonoma County north of San Francisco, I availed myself
of the G.I. Bill of Rights and studied law at Leland Stanford University
in Palo Alto, California. My strong interest in government, public af-
fairs and politics during my college and war years impelled me to make
this move.

Returning to the East and receiving my law degree, I commenced
the practice of law in New York. My advertising background together
with my interest in public law availed me of service as counsel for the
American Broadcasting Company for a considerable period. Thereupon
the opportunity to take an equity position in the new leasing industry
where I could serve both as legal counsel and as an executive with ad-
vertising responsibility was offered me. The further inducement was
that this endeavor was located on the North Shore of Long Island in my
“home town” terrain. This combination, of which I availed myself, en-
abled me to participate extensively in community and political affairs.

In politics I have been and still am a Democrat of the Jeffersonian,
Wilsonian and Rooseveltian schools with a strong tinge of conservatism
thrown in. Having completed my first campaign this year, I look for-
ward to more political activity in the future both as a candidate and in
the management of major campaigns.

Love and marriage came my way in my late thirties when I met Ida
(‘Eeda”) Meistermann from France We have two lovely children,
Cathy, now six and David, now four. We make our home in Port
Washington on the North Shore of Long Island.

Journalism interests me as an avocation. I write from time to time on
politics, navy subjects and professional matters. Geography is also a
keen interest of mine, particularly with regard to maps and terrain.
Golf, tennis, swimming and skiing are my sports and my family’s. We
cannot report too active a participation in any at this stage of the game.
We vacation in Vermont and enjoy mountain climbing, mountain
streams and occasional visits to Montreal, our favorite city in these
environs.

For the future, I am optimistic, in fact I believe, youthfully so. I look
forward to worthwhile endeavors and the good life. My very best
wishes to all my classmates.

584 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

DEE ROBERT KELLEHER +

4

  
    

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: P.O, Box 6307, Metropolitan Station, Los Angeles 52,
Calif. .

ORRIN CROSBY

KELLER
F ee eee
i

HOME AppreEss: 1820 Potomac Drive, Toledo, Ohio.

OFFICE AppREsS: West Central Medical Group, 2500 W. Central Ave., Toledo, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: T.A. DeVilbiss High School, Toledo, Ohie.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREE: M.D., 1943.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Josselyn Brown, Oct. 31, 1942. cHILDREN: Elizabeth Upton,
Dec. 18, 1943; Katherine Lee, June 29, 1947; Emily Crosby, March 24, 1950;
Pauline Moore, June 8, 1952; Orrin Christian, March 10, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon in small specialist group.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American College of Surgeons; Lucas
County Academy of Medicine; North Cape Yacht Club; North American
Yacht Racing Union; Great Lakes Cruising Club.

A broken leg in February of °39 got me out of a last semester, final
exams and a college graduation. On to Harvard Medical School without
graduation, with graduation there in 1943. Intern on surgical service
of Boston City Hospital, 1943. Active duty with Navy, 1944-45 and
part of 1946, with Amphibious Forces for Normandy landing in ETO
and for several Southwest Pacific landings in Philippines, Okinawa.
Briefly in Shanghai before discharge. Surgical resident, Toledo Hos-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 585

pital, 1946-49, and now general surgeon in six-man group of specialists.
Resigned commission in USNR after Korea, on the basis that I didn’t
want to be recalled before some of my fellows and felt that a Reservist
should be willing to be recalled if necessary.

Children as listed. Eldest daughter now a junior at University of
Colorado doing applied mathematics in the School of Engineering — the
space age is about to come to roost in our house.

Am financially a Republican supporter, but find that in truth I can
see little difference in quality, only in quantity, between them and
Democrats. Am a firm opponent of Big Government — and certainly
of any expansion of federal government before that government has
learned to run what it now has properly. This makes me a Goldwater
Republican on domestic issues, but am not so certain on world events.

Hobbies are largely sailing in the summer and skiing in the winter.
We have a cruising auxiliary which the entire family enjoys for Georgian
Bay vacations and which doubles as a racer for Mackinac and other
events on the Lakes. Not much success there, as yet.

HOLLISTER KENT

por eee? :
% . o . “ ve
e : te ge a oY

:

a
.

“RE EMPLOI NCEE te

  

HOME ADDRESS: Dunhill Road, Fayetteville, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Planners’ Collaborative, 721 Midtown Plaza, Syracuse, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: $.B., 1939; m.R.p. (Cornell Univ.), 1952;
PH.D. (ibid.), 1956.

MARRIED: Fifine Johnson, 1942 (divorced 1947); Edith Rairden Rudd, June 7,
1947. cHILDREN: Margaret Ann, May 6, 1947; Bruce Rairden, Oct. 15, 1950;
Polly Curtiss, June 1, 1952; Timothy Rich, Nov. 1, 1955; Nicholas Coburn,
Feb. 17, 1958.

OCCUPATION: City and regional planner; senior partner, Planners’ Collaborative;
adjunct professor in planning, Syracuse University,

OFFICES HELD: President, New York State Chapter, American Institute of Planners:
director, International Chapter, National Association of Housing and Re-
development Officials; member, Steering Committee, New Towns’ Council;
member, Kent Tavern Museum Committee; member of vestry, Trinity Episco-
pal Church, Fayetteville, N.Y.; vice-president, Old West Church Association,
Kents’ Corner, Calais, Vt.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Vermont and Syracuse; American Academy of
Political and Social Science; International Federation of Housing and Plan-
ning Association of Canada.

586 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

puBLicaTions: “Brazil’s New Federal Capital”; articles in American City Maga-
zine, Public Works Magazine, Technology and Culture, Encyclopaedia Britan-
nica.

My occupation (regional planning) is really not a business because
it is too fascinating, and I almost, but not quite, should pay somebody
for allowing me to do it. My interest in large scale planning projects
has taken me and my family to Brazil where I was general manager in
charge of the site selection for Brazil's New Federal Capital; to Kitimat,
British Columbia, as director of Town Planning, to Puerto Rico,
Venezuela and many European countries. Within the United States,
I have been involved in a number of planning projects from the loca-
tion of individual buildings to shopping centers, entire villages and towns
and the State of Vermont and the Lake Champlain Basin. With my
partners, we have become specialists in the combined use of aerial
photographs and electronic data processing which involves the total
recall of basic information and in relation to a unique identification
system using aerial photographs, We have used this system in a sophisti-
cated way as in our current project for the Boston Regional Project or
in an equally sophisticated fashion but in an underdeveloped state lke
Vermont. As I write this I am about to embark for Western Australia
to work with Frank Davidson on a feasibility study of 5,000,000 acres.

My marriage is a happy one and my wife is interested in what I do and -
contributes greatly to my efforts. | am one of the few members from

our class who can say that he married a Yale graduate. Edith graduated
from the Yale School of Nursing and is involved in mental health
research — definitely associated with City Planning. Our family is
bright and happy and we enjoy their company and marvel at how little
we know. The public schools are excellent and we participate to a
considerable degree in school matters. My war years from 1942 to
1947 were spent with the 87th Mountain Infantry Regiment of the

roth Mountain Infantry Division. | met many men who are still good
friends, but this is the only thing I got out of the war and I could have

done this in peacetime.

I am an Episcopalian and a believer in the Ecumenical Movement.
Politically, 1 am an independent, which means that in Vermont I am a
Democrat which is about the same as being a progressive New York
Republican. | am a non-Goldwater man, and although I believe that
Kennedy is not perfect, | haven’t seen anything better yet on the
Republican side.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 587

SRG

WALTER STRATTON KERR, JR.

    

HOME appress: 84 Hinckley Rd., Milton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 275 Charles St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREES: a.B., 1939; m.p. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
1943

MARRIED: Olive Mcllwain, June 20, 1940. cHILDREN: Scott, July 17, 1947; John,
Aug. 3, 1950; Robert, Feb. 21, 1952; David, Dec. 28, 1955.
occupation: Urologist, Massachusetts General Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant clinical professor of surgery, Harvard Medical School;
secretary, New England Urological Association.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons; Massachusetts Medical Society;
American Urological Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Medical articles.

Following two years in the Army Medical Corps I returned to the
Massachusetts General Hospital to complete surgical training. I have
been here since, enjoying my practice with numerous classmates.

We are fortunate in having four wonderful sons who enjoy skiing,
boating and shooting with us.

JACQUES KESHISHIAN +

 

LAST MAILING AbpRESS: 1503d Air Transport Wing, APO 323, San Francisco, Calif.

} “stare ws as sat .

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

UW ELLINGTON KIME ALL, JR.

ETON

 
  

$$ <$—_—_———tss: 78 Franklin St., Peabody, Mass.

CHARLES BARRY KING

‘a 7)

al Gloucester St., Arlington, Mase,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 589

OFFICE ADDRESS: 125 High St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1943 (47).

MARRIED; Catherine F. Brown, July 26, 1947. cHiLpren: Mary Anne, Sept. 1,
1948; Julie, Dec. 22, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Attorney; associate of Leon B. Newman.

After a year of teaching, I entered Harvard Law School in 1940;
served with the Army in the Pacific in World War II, was discharged
in 1946; returned to law school, graduated in February, 1947; became
a member of Massachusetts and Federal bars and an associate of Leon
B. Newman in the practice of law in Boston; association has continued
to date.

I was married in July, 1947. My wife, Catherine, and I have two
daughters, Mary Anne (fifteen) and Julie (thirteen). The family enjoys
sports, travel and the theatre. We believe that much remains to be done
to make America more meaningful.

FRANCIS ROGERSON KING

  
 

   

nesenen centers AMOR R184 IAG ES EN SATEEN

HOME appREss: 240 Lydale Pl., Meriden, Conn.

OFFICE apprEss: W.H. Squire Co., Inc., 204 Colony St., Meriden, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; m.B.a., L941.

MARRIED: Sylvia Landon Vaill, June 28, 1947. cHILDREN: Susan Holmes, May 10,
1948; Carolyn Rogerson, March 27, 1950; Thomas Vaill, Sept. 27, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, W.H. Squire Company, Inc., insurance, real estate,
travel.

OFFICES HELD: President, Meriden Rotary Club, 1960-61, Central Connecticut
Real Estate Board, 1958, Meriden Association of Insurance Agents, Inc.,
1954-56; member, Meriden Republican Town Committee, 1957-63.

MEMBER OF: Home Club, Meriden; Harvard Varsity Club; Ow! Club.

Upon graduation I entered a training program with the Gilbert Clock
Company in Winsted, Connecticut. In February of 1940 I entered the
accelerated course at the Harvard Business School. Having a Reserve
commission in the Navy, I was ordered to active duty in June of 1941
and assigned to the War Plans Section of Naval Operations in Washing-
ton, D.C, Being young and eager, I finally arranged orders to sea duty
and reported aboard the light cruiser USS Juneau only to be told that

590 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

they had three too many ensigns. Heartbroken, little did I realize how
lucky we three were as the Juneau went down with practically all hands
in her first Pacific engagement,

Reassigned, | joined a new destroyer, USS Knight (DD-633) and we
nianaged to stay afloat through the invasions of North Africa, Sicily, and
Italy, Again reassigned to SCTC in Miami, the Navy saw fit to order
me to a new destroyer escort, Grady (DE-445), as commanding officer
in July, 1944. With the help of the good Lord and more luck we came
through the end of the Philippines, Iwo Jima, and Okinawa unscathed.

Returning to the Gilbert Clock Company in 1946 I took off my two
and a half stripes and started off again as a seaman second in industry,
At the end of two years the insurance business seemed like a greener
pasture. So for the next three years I experimented in various phases
of the insurance business, including starting a real estate and insurance
agency in Winsted, Connecticut. However, an ill-guided venture into
the prefabricated house development arena forced the closing of our
enterprise or face bankruptcy.

During this period I married Sylvia Landon Vaill in June of 1947 and
we started our family of three children, two girls and then one boy.

In March, 1951, I decided to move to Meriden, Connecticut, and joined
the W.H. Squire Company where I am now a vice-president. We operate
two offices, one in Meriden and another in Wallingford, Connecticut,
helping people and industry wich their insurance, real estate, and travel
problems, The work is interesting and varied and also gives us a chance
to travel again when we can get away. One of our chief sources of
pleasure is a cottage which we built in 1960 right on the water in South
Wellfleet, Cape Cod, Massachusetts. If the years ahead go as planned
we may become permanent Cape Codders upon retirement.

LAUREN COLBY KINGMAN, JR.

 

HOME appress: 36 Whelan Ave., Croton-on-Hudson, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The Mearl Corp., Ossining, N.Y,

PREPARED AT: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. prGkeE: 5.6,, cum laude, 1939.

mannizo: Julia BE. Bellinger, Oct. 21, 1943. custoren: Lauren Colby, 3d. Feb. 27,
1947; Karolyn Ruth, Dec, 17, 1948; Julie Anne, Nov. 13, 1950; Allen Brad-
ford, Nov. 8, 1953.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 591

occuPaTION: Process engineer (primarily concerned with production methods and

equipment, but also involved in buying raw materials and selling a few
products).

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Oil Chemists’ Society; Re-
serve Officers’ Association.

May, 1959, after fourteen years processing fish liver oil into vitamin
concentrates and manufacturing sundry compounds from natural pro-
ducts, I joined the Mearl Corporation and have since devoted my time
to the production of pearl essence, fish oil, fish meal and, again, sundry
compounds from natural products.

My work is varied and interesting; I spend the summer fishing season
at Kastport, Maine, and the remainder of the year based at administrative
headquarters in Ossining, New York. Our offices are in a large estate
overlooking the Hudson. This location, only two miles from home, has
made my working conditions quite pleasant.

The family has spent summer months at Red Beach, Maine, on the
St. Croix River, while old dad was busy with the herring. We are
fascinated by the extreme tides around Quoddy, but we have given up
trying to describe or portray them. They have to be seen to be
appreciated.

Biggest problem for us at present is trying to work out college plans
for four children and then finding means to put them into effect.

ROGER KINNICUTT, JR.

e . fice pe cep semnen ers stem

      

A
HOME ADDRESS: 50 Berwick St., Worcester, Mass. 01602. .
OFFICE ADDRESS: Morgan Construction Co., 15 Belmont St., Worcester, Mass. 01605.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: s.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Janet Heywood, Dec. 2, 1939. cHILDREN: Philip Heywood, Sept. 3, 1941;
Pamela Moen, Aug. 26, 1945; Valerie, Sept. 16, 1948; Roger, 3d, February,
1950 (died June, 1950); Hester Newton, Aug. 18, 1951.

occupation: Assistant chief engineer, Morgan Construction Company, manufac-
ture and design of rolling mills and rolling mill machinery for steel and non-
ferrous industries.

OFFICES HELD: Division chairman, Golden Rule Fund, Red Cross Campaign, 1962,
1963; member, Advisory Board, YWCA, Worcester, 196], 1962; corporator,
Worcester Boys Club, 1950, Worcester County Institution for Savings, 1947;
district chairman, Mohegan Council, Boy Scouts of America, 1959-61; Gradu-

592 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ate Council, Milton Academy, 1962; member of corporation, Community
Services of Greater Worcester, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Alumni Association; Milton Academy Alumni Association;
Bancroft School Alumni Association; Fenn School Alumni Association;
Worcester Polytechnic Institution Alumni Association; Association of Iron
& Steel Engineers; Worcester Republican Club; Citizens’ Plan E Association,
Tatnuck Country Club, Worcester Club, and University Club, all of Worcester;
Stone Horse Yacht Club, Harwich Port, Mass.; Harvard Club of Worcester.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous patents covering machines and/or machine com-
ponents used in rolling mills and rolling mill machinery — all assigned to
Morgan Construction Company.

In 1939, a week before graduation, I was congratulating myself on
just having landed a job. | was to report early in August to work in
the Engineering Department of Morgan Construction Company, Worces-
ter, Massachusetts. This fulfilled the criteria I had set up in my own
mind as to the kind of work I wanted to do and where I wanted to do it.
After twenty-five years I have no regrets. Morgan built the first con-
tinuous steel rolling mill in the United States seventy-five years ago
and since have designed and manufactured nearly 250 mills of various
types for installation in the United States, Canada, Argentina, Australia,
India, Germany, France, Norway, Sweden, Luxembourg, Belgium,
England, and nearly thirty years ago in Russia.

Starting in as a draftsman I have worked on the shop assembly floor,
in the field as installation engineer, plant engineering, design and develop-
ment, and project and sales engineering. Our product is 100% custom
designed and built to meet our customers’ particular problems and
requirements, The caliber of the people I work with, both colleagues
and customers, and the opportunity for creative and imaginative engineer-
ing have sustained my pleasure in my work over the years.

Before graduation, Janet and I were engaged and in December of
1939, after I'd gotten settled in my job, we were married, In February
of 1941 we bought the house in which we still live. In June of 1942
we moved to California for nearly a year where I was in charge of the
mechanical installation of what was then the most modern and efficient
rod mill ever built. Philip was with us, having greeted the world in
September of 1941.

Then back to Worcester for a few months before leaving Morgan to
accept a commission in the Naval Reserve. I had an interesting and varied
tour of duty primarily attached to the Planning and Logistics Section of
the Bureau of Ordnance. As one of a small group of ordnance specialists
we undertook odd jobs all over the world, installing and instructing in
the use of new weapons and weapons systems. We worked above, on,
and under the ocean surface. Pamela arrived in August, 1945, while I
was on a mission in New Orleans preparing an outfit for a move to the
Pacific. A civilian again in April of 1946, I settled back in my work in
Worcester, off rolling mills temporarily and assigned to the layout of a
new plant for Morgan.

Valerie was born in September, 1948, and August, 1951, saw the ar-
rival of Hester. So now with a son and three daughters, we had our
hands full. As responsibilities increased and [ was more and more finding
myself engaged in project and sales engineering with the consequent
travel obligations, we somehow managed to find time to add on to our

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 593

Worcester house and achieve a long-time dream of owning our own
house on Cape Cod. As the children grew up we found it possible to do
more and more together as a family — summers at the Cape and skiing
weekends in the winter. Hester can now ski circles around me. The
three Birls together form a very competent racing crew on our Bull’s
Fye class sixteen-foot sailboat. As of this writing, Phil has graduated
from Williams College, Class of 1963; Pam is a sophomore at Wellesley;
Val is at Dana Hall, and Hester is in the seventh grade here in Worcester
at the Bancroft School — all better students than I ever was. My own
formal education stopped in June of 1939 except for four years of weekly
classes in the School of Industrial Management at Worcester Polytechnic
Institute.

My work has taken me all over the United States and Canada and
recently Australia and Europe. With a large family and education costs
what they are today, Janet and I have found little time or the where-
withal to travel for our own pleasure. We both find ourselves busy in
the life of the community, each of us active in Community Chest and
other civil obligations. Sometimes one wonders where all the necessary
time is to come from in order to get it all done. All in all, the years since
college have been good to me and my family. I am proud of our chil-
dren and what they are achieving. I am enjoying a career, with the same
company since 1939, that is most rewarding as much from the personal
satisfaction it gives me as from its tangible returns.

BENJAMIN BUCK KIRKLAND

    

HOME appreEss: R.D. 1, Frenchtown, N.J.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R_I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Lloyd Dearmont (Seggerman), June 24, 1959, CHILDREN: Mary Bonsal
Seggerman, April 8, 1947; Frederick Timpson Seggerman, Feb. 4, 1951;
Caroline McMichael, July 7, 1960; Benjamin Buck, Jr., Oct. 11, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Farmer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Union Club; New York City; Historical
Society of Pennsylvania.

Shortly after graduation I found myself bobbing around the North
Atlantic on board a destroyer. In various destroyers and on various
waters I spent all of World War II and seventeen months of the Korean

594 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

War. I commanded the USS Sanders, the USS Decatur and was chief
staff officer of the Commander of Destroyer Squadron 18. I have never
been on board a water-borne vessel since.

When not at war I have had several interesting civilian jobs. As a
footloose bachelor I traveled a good deal. I boast — quite honestly —
that I have been in every country in Western Europe except Andorra
and San Marino. I have also seen a little of the Middle East.

I am conservative by nature but scepticism keeps breaking into my
social, political and religious convictions. For instance, although from
my majority I have been (and am) a registered Republican, | always
seem to vote for the Democratic candidates in national elections.

Just twenty years after graduation my life changed abruptly: I gave
up bachelorhood. It seemed like a brave thing to do at the time, despite
the beauty, warmth and vivaciousness of my wife. It (my bravery) paid
off. The results today are highly satisfying: one wife; one stepdaughter

aged sixteen; one stepson aged twelve; one daughter aged three; one son
aged two; one farm of 115 acres.

Neither Lloyd nor I had ever lived far from a big city, and preferably
right in it. But not now. Our nearest visible neighbor is across the
Delaware River. My sole activity is the planting, pruning, weeding.
thinning and (someday) the harvesting of several different kinds of trees.

Lloyd is the farmer’s wife and I think that she likes our life as much
as 1 do.

 

HOME appress: 128 Bellingham Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ApoRESS: Lee Shops, Inc. 101 Hampton Ave., Needham Heights 94, Mass.

prerareD AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Beverly Jacobson, June 25, 1942. cuitonnn: Leslie Jean, April 6, 1946;
Jerrold Carlton, Sept. 22, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Merchant; president of several firms engaged in operating discount
department stores and leased women’s wear departments in discount stores;
duties are merchandising, advertising, personnel and management.

OFFICES HELD: President and director, Lee Shops, Inc., Leeventure, Inc., Stuarts,
Inc.; vice-president and director, Sayles, Ine; member, board of directors,
Temple Emeth and its Brotherhood,

MEMBER OF: Moses Michael Hayes Lodge, AF. & A.M.; B'nai B'rith; Temple

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 595

Emeth Brotherhood; Spring Valley Country Club; Business Men’s Council
of Combined Jewish Appeal.

The twenty-five years of my life since graduation have sped by all too
rapidly. I entered the business world in my present occupation just
before graduation in May, 1939. I joined my family’s business that
operated three small women’s wear specialty shops. In May, 1942, my
business career was interrupted, and | entered the Naval Supply Corps
as an ensign. In November, 1945, I was released from active duty as a
lieutenant senior grade after having served with the 45th Construction
Battalion in the Aleutians, and with the Naval Landing Force Equipment
Depot in San Diego, California. On return to Boston, I rejoined my
family business, which my brother and I proceeded to expand. At first
our expansion continued in the women’s wear specialty shop field.
However, with the development of the discount department store in
New England, we left the specialty field and currently operate a chain
of women’s wear departments in New England discount stores, and
several discount stores. Since 1945, our business has grown from small
to large, and my own duties have constantly changed with the years.
The task of operating our business successfully has kept me all too busy
during this period. However, 1 have not suffered from boredom and

have enjoyed the constant challenge of the business world.

During this entire period, I have enjoyed a happy home life, con-
tinuing to live in my native city. My son and daughter, in addition to
the normal amount of anguish, have given my wife and me years of
pleasure. My daughter is presently a freshman at Goucher College, and
my son a sophomore at high school,

Besides the time spent at business and with my family, I enjoy playing
golf, bowling, swimming, exercising, taking an active part in our Temple
affairs, reading, theatre, television, symphony and my friends. My busi-
ness requires considerable traveling throughout New England and
frequent visits to New York. My vacations have taken me to Florida and

to the Caribbean, principally to play golf.

Looking back over the last twenty-five years, I am happy to say that

on the whole God has been good to me, and these years have been
productive and enjoyable. .

RICHARD MARTIN KLEIN

FRALEY TRI

__ er,

      

      

ARN

  

ie on .
; at Pe ee ot

596 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HOME appREss: 941 Washington Ave., Brooklyn 25, N.Y,

OFFICE amaness: National Fund for Medical Education, 2 W. 46th St., New York
36, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: James Madison High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.; Polytechnic Prepara-
tory School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; tL.5., 1942.

MARRIED: Jeanne Picou, Nov. 18, 1951. cump: Patricia, Dec. 30, 1944.

occupation: Administrator, fund-raising for medical schools, divisional director.

MEMBER OF: Crown Heights Community Renewal Council; Touring-Club de
France; Brooklyn Botanic Garden.

WALTER CHARLES KLEIN

 

HOME ApprEss: 232 Hartshorn Drive, Short Hills, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bunge Corp., 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, New York 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Realgymnasium 1, Vienna, Austria.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1936-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939.

marrieD: Mary Kennard Eddy, Wellesley °42, April 5, 1941. cnmpren: Walter

Charles, Jr, May 23, 1943; John Eddy, Sept. 21, 1945; Margaret Kennedy,
Feb. 4, 1950.

HARYARD SON: Walter Charles Klein, Jr., ’65.

OCCUPATION: President and director, Bunge Corporation, international commodity
firm.

OFFICES HELD: Chicago Board of Trade; board member, since 1959, executive
committee, since 1959, New York Produce Exchange; Winnipeg Grain Ex-
change; Kansas City Board of Trade.

member oF: Harvard Club of New York; Orange Lawn Tennis Club (governor
since 1960); India House, New York; Lawyers Club, New York; Pan
American Society of the US.; British American Chamber of Commerce; In-
ternational House, New Orleans; Netherland American Foundation.

In reviewing my life I find that it has no great significance but I have
enjoyed ir. Since our Decennial Report I have remained with the same
company emerging as president in 1959. Bunge Corporation is an old
and well-established international commodity firm. The business is most
complex and very challenging. Therefore, business life is hectic but
always interesting and highly rewarding.

Travel has always been one of my major pleasures. In the early Fifties
I did a great deal of traveling for my firm to Europe, South America
and the Far East, including two trips around the world. Though I en-
joyed the people I met and the places I saw, I did not like to be away
from home so much. However, since 1954 1 have made numerous ex-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 597

tended trips with my family for pleasure. Through living in Argentina
and because of our many trips abroad, we have a great number of friends
and business acquaintances world-wide, It is a rare week when we do
not have a visitor.

We live the usual suburban life, driving the children, playing a little
tennis and paddle tennis, together with a hodge podge of civic duties.
We battled for better education for our children in the public schools of
another town — lost — and put them in private schools. My family is
my major pleasure. My wife, a Wellesley find, is active in community
and charitable work. Both our sons, though receiving early acceptance
at Yale, spurned it. This year my elder son is a junior at Harvard and is
fortunate to be in Eliot House. Our other son is a freshman at Princeton.
Our daughter is an eighth-grader at the Kent Place School.

On several occasions I have been called upon by our government for
advice on agricultural policy. With good health and enthusiasm for

living, I have enjoyed these twenty-five years since graduation from
Harvard.

WILLIAM STANDISH KNOWLES

    

HOME ADDRESS: 661 E. Monroe Ave., Kirkwood 22, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Monsanto Chemical Co., 1700 S. Second St., St. Louis 77, Mo.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass.; Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; PH.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1942.

MaRRIED: Lesley Ann Cherbonnier, Dec. 8, 1945. cHILDREN: Lesley, March 2,
1948; Peter, Nov. 9, 1949; Sarah, Oct. 14, 1953; Elizabeth, April 6, 1958.

occupATION: Research chemist, Monsanto Chemical Company.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; AAAS; Society for Chemical Industry.

PUBLICATIONS: Several publications and patents in the field of synthetic organic
chemistry.

After leaving college 1 continued my education at Columbia, getting a
Ph.D. degree in organic chemistry. During the war years I worked in
the research department of the Monsanto Chemical Company, first at
Dayton and later at St. Louis, where I am at present.- My scientific in-
terests have always kept me out of the business end of chemical manu-
facture and still continue to keep me very much engaged in research
activities. ‘

I've always been a family man, and much of my spare time has been

598 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

spent in this area. In many ways my life is quite typical of suburbia,
but I have still managed to hold on to my identity. My hobbies are any-
thing that keeps me outside, sailing, canoeing, skiing, gardening, etc.
Except for a couple of interesting business trips to Europe I haven’t
traveled very extensively but hope to do more in the future,

Life continues to be interesting and exciting, and like most of us, I find
there is far too little time to do the things one desires.

ROBERT KOCH

    

HOME ApprEss: 9 Outer Rd., South Norwalk, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 501 Crescent St., New Haven, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Franklin School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pecrEEs: a.B., 1939; a.m. (New York Univ.), 1953;
PHD. (Yale Univ.), 1957.

marriep: Gladys L. Rooff, Aug. 5, 1942. cHILDREN: Elaine Laurel, Dec. 2, 1951;
Mitchel! David, Feb. 2, 1953.

occupation: Associate professor of art, Southern Connecticut State College, New
Haven, Conn.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Silvermine College of Art, Temple Shalom of Norwalk;
lecturer, University of California at Berkeley, 1961; chairman, Art Depart-
ment, Southern Connecticut State College, 1959-60; Tiffany fellowships, 1960,

MEMBER OF: College Art Association; Society of Architectural Historians; National
Trust for Historic Preservation; American Association of University Profes-
SOrs.

PUBLICATIONS: Louis C. Tiffany, Rebel in Glass, Crown Publishers, forthcoming;
“Artistic Books,” The Art Quarterly, winter, 1962; “Will Bradley,” Art in
America, No. 3, 1962; “Art Nouveau Bing,” Gazette Des Beaux Arts, March,

oF.

It took me nearly ten years to realize the benefits of academic life.
During the interval I was married, served as a bombardier-navigator and
worked as a purchasing agent, account executive and advertising agency
production manager. Huckstering on Madison Avenue was not for me.
Short of my first ulcer I began to take graduate courses in the history of
art. That was in 1948 and since then I have been content, even while
studying and teaching at Yale.

For the past seven years | have been a member of the faculty of South-
ern Connecticut State College in New Haven, have published many
articles and served as consultant in several museurn exhibitions, By the

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 599

time this statement appears in print, my first book, Louis C. Tiffany:
Rebel in Glass, will be on the market. I do hope it will be well received,
but above all I get the greatest satisfaction from my family and from
the hundreds of young people who seem to be enjoying the courses I
offer. To any of my classmates whose children or grandchildren do not
want to go to Harvard, I can personally recommend Southern Connecti-
cut State College, particularly for teacher education in art or physical

education. To any of my classmates who collect antiques, let me know
how you like my book.

ANTHONY JOHN KONDON

  
  

  
  

HOME ADDRESS: 2 Hazel St., Apt. 11, Salem, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS; 208 Essex St., Salem, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Peabody High School, Peabody, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREES: PH.G. (Massachusetts Col]. of Pharmacy),
1933; p.w.p. (Tufts Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Lillian Mamalis, June 10, 1948. curLpRen: Maria, Jan. 30, 1950; Amelia,
Sept. 28, 1951; Elizabeth, May 25, 1953.
OCCUPATION: Dentist.

MEMBER OF: American Dental Association; North Shore District Dental Society;
Massachusetts Dental Association; American Pharmaceutical Association.

JOHN JOSEPH KORBEL

lee,

A

600 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Home appress: 1809 Summit Ave., Madison, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Social Science Bldg., Dept. of Economics, University of Wisconsin,
Madison, Wis.

PREPARED AT: Bryanston School, Blandford, Dorset, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 4.B., cum laude, 1939; m.p.a., 1941; PH.D., 1959.

marrteD: Isobel Albrecht. cuiLpREN: Mark, aged twenty; Wendy, aged twenty;
Peter H.. aged nineteen; Peter J., aged fifteen.

occupaTION: Assistant professor of economics, University of Wisconsin, since 1959.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of economics, University of New Hampshire,
1950-57; research associate, Computation Center, M.LT., 1957-59.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author with Guy Orcutt, M. Greenberger and A. Rivlin, Micro-
analysis of Socioeconemic Systems, Harper & Bros. 1961; “Female Labor-
Force Mobility and Its Simulation,” paper presented at the Resources for the
Future Conference, November, 1962; paper is being published in a volume
devoted to the proceedings.

Research on the local employment multiplier under a grant from the
Federal Reserve Bank of Boston. Reported in the Monthly Review of
the Federal Reserve Bank of Boston, March, 1955. Since 1960, co- -director
of research project on the financing of small business in Wisconsin.
Funds for this project were provided by the Small Business Administra-
tion and the following three reports were prepared for and are being
distributed by that agency: The Availability of Credit to Wisconsin
Small Business, by Gene Finn; Attitudes of Wisconsin Bankers Towards
Small Business Financing, by Raymond Hooker; Measurement of Risk
Attitudes of Wisconsin Banks, by Willard Carleton. A fourth study also
utilizing data gathered in this project will be completed by Mrs, Kath-
leen Havgood and myself this summer.

June, 1962, to February, 1963 — consultant to the Office of the Regts-
trar on problems of conversion to automatic data processing. Presently
on the faculty committee on registration and records,

JOHN HARALD KOREN

 

HOME appress: R.F.D, 4, South Ridge, E., Geneva, Ohio,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 345 Rogers PI. , Ashtabula, Ohio,

PREPARED AT: Ashtabula High Se hool, Ashtabula, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936, 1940-1941, 1946-1948, proREE: A.B. 1939(48).

marniep: Giaconda Aida Monti, Jan, 15, 1955. cH
16, 1955; John Harald, Jr., Dec. 1, 1959, tonen: Kathering Anne, Nov.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 601

occupation: Director, Ashtabula County Dept. of Public Welfare; administering
seven types of public assistance.

OFFICES HELD: President, New England Pan-Am. Society, College Division, circa,
1940, Ashtabula County Welfare Federation, 1954-55, Northeast Ohio Welfare
Directors Association, 1961-63; warehouse superintendent, A & P Tea Com-
pany (Somerville, Mass., Providence and Albany), 1947-54; owner-operator,

Koren Bakery, 1955-59; member, executive and legislative committees, Ohio
State Directors Association, 1961-64.

MEMBER OF: Ashtabula Exchange Club; Ashtabula County Welfare Federation;
Northeast Ohio and Ohio State Welfare Directors Associations; Ohio State
County Commissioners Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Newspaper articles on public assistance; currently assembling more
comprehensive data for eventual publication.

I went to Harvard under the highest-seventh plan in 1935, but was
inadequately prepared both scholastically and financially, Worked for
a few years and made it back in 1940, only to be drafted into the service.
I was discharged from the Army Engineers Corps as a captain, in my
fifth year of service, after two years in the Southwest Pacific and the
Far East. I earned a majority in the Army Engineer Reserves in which
I participated for the next twelve years. However, I took an inactive
status because of the impossibility of adequate participation in the meet-
ings always held at a great distance from the area where I had settled.

Upon returning to the United States, I returned to Harvard where J
finally managed to get A’s and B’s and was finally graduated in 1948,
as of the Class of ’39, thirteen years after I first registered and just before
the Tenth Reunion.

Meanwhile I got a job with A & P Tea Company. I answered the ad-
vertisement because it sounded like a call for a port engineer, which was
my job in New Guinea. After seven years of trouble-shooting, I resigned
to return to Ohio and my folks.

I went back to Boston in 1955, to marry my wife who was a master
sergeant in the WAC, a former aerial photographer, parachute jumper,
and my personnel sergeant in a topo unit at the Boston Army base. We
now have two lovely children, and the boy, born in 1959, was the first
boy born in our family in forty-two years. However, my brother Rob-
ert, Harvard 44, M.B.A. °49, finally produced one five months later, after
three daughters.

After running the family business, with the rest of the family, for the
next four years after leaving the New England area, I decided I was
ready to go into community service work. My main object during the
previous twenty years had been to gain a variety of experiences through
varied occupations so I could understand human problems on a first-hand
basis. It just so happened that this county was looking for an (allegedly)
qualified man to become welfare director in the face of a rising swell of
rumors and unrest. After four years of investigations of embezzlements,
child stealing, baby black markets, property diversion, character assassina-
tions and fact suppression, the local situation is somewhat stabilized but
now the nation is in an uproar.

I could write volumes on welfare and associated problems but if any-
one ever reads this far I would like to point out a few things, Lack of
education is the greatest single factor among welfare clients. Locally,
sixty-five per cent never passed the eighth grade, many never attended

602 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

any school, only five per cent finished high school and seven persons
went on to higher education, but did not finish. The popular criticisms of
welfare pale into insignificance beside this fact. Secondly, I would like
to point out that those who make and pass the laws seldom provide
adequately for payment for the services for which they literally make
huge segments of our population eligible. Thirdly, there is an increas-
ing number of people who accept public assistance as a way of life.
These persons will fight to the finish any attempt to make them accept
any responsibility for their actions or even to comply with the rules
under which assistance is given. Fourthly, the average welfare worker
today is so steeped in the idea of service to the individual that they have
little concept of the need of the community, or of the ability of a com-
munity to support a program. Fifthly, little of the assistance, given so
often “because of the children,” actually filters down to the children.
Instead, children become exceedingly well-versed in welfare society and
swell the ranks as soon as the age of reproduction is reached. Constant,
easily available assistance destroys the soul, integrity, sense of responsi-
bility and morals. Even the disabled and otherwise truly needy are sus-
cepuble to the corrosive effects of a life of rights without responsibilities.
Beyond all this, however, is the fact our population is increasing so
fast that by 1970 there will statistically be several millions of workers
who will never have a job from the time of birth to the time of death.
Unless Republicans, Democrats and Independents alike get together on
the problem of what to do with our fellow human beings, ume will
run out on us and we will find we have sold our birthright from under
us. I still believe in the inevitable triumph of common sense and logic
in a democratic society such as ours but so often it seems so many are
willing to sell their souls for thirty pieces of silver. As a respite from
this outlook and to refresh our own souls my wife and I have rebuilt
and restored one of the earliest of Western Reserve homes. One hundred
and fifty years ago the Indians would leave their babies with the white
settlers here while they made trips up the lakes for supplies unavailable
in this area.

Then, last fall we were stunned by our President’s assassination. We
admired his efforts even though we didn’t always agree with methods
and results. We do feel, though, that if he has made people more con-
scious of what each one can do for his country, he will have accom-
plished more than he ever dreamed.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 603

LEONARD KORNET

   

HOME AppREsSs: 436 William St., Geneva, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Seneca Lumber Co., 21 Water St., Ovid, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1940. pecree: a.B., cum laude, 1939(40).

MARRIED: Pauline Edelstein, Aug. 10, 1941. cHiLpreN: Marilyn Jean, Dec. 23,
1942; Nancy Lorraine, May 16, 1949; Penny Maureen, April 20, 1951.

occuPATION: Owner and manager, Seneca Lumber Company, building supply and
contracting firm.

OFFICES HELD: President, Geneva Board of Education, 1959-64; director, First
National Bank, Ovid, N.Y., since 1963; president, 1950-52, chairman of
board, 1960-63, Temple Beth El, Geneva.

MEMBER OF: University Club, Geneva, N.Y., 1950-61.

I put in two years at Littauer Center upon graduation, and at the end
of this two years, I took Civil Service training at an arsenal in Illinots,
married, and with new spouse was sent to the beautiful Finger Lakes
region of New York State to help set up offices for the newly-established
Seneca Ordnance Depot in Kendaia, New York. This was in the fall of
1941. Setting up the offices was a challenging task for the young group
of recent grads to whom the Ordnance Department had assigned this
task, but they did a job and formed lasting friendships, even though we
are now scattered all over the country — all except me and one or two
others who established their homes in this lovely area.

I went into the Army, serving with the Ordnance Department, and
after OCS and one other assignment I was sent back to Seneca Ordnance
and served there until the termination of my Army service.

My wife, Pauline, and I had established our home in nearby Geneva,
New York, and it has remained our home and the birthplace of our
daughters, Marilyn, twenty-one, Nancy, fourteen, and Penny, twelve.

We are both actively involved in the affairs of this community and
our church. We also have a summer home on Seneca Lake, midway
between our home and my place of business, a lumber yard in Ovid,
New York. The lake and cottage provide us all with a delightful sum-
mer respite, though I remain on the job. I do building and remodeling
and this is definitely my “season.” I am serving as president of the local
Board of Education and we are grappling with district consolidation,
expansion of vocational training facilities, improvement of physical
plants, etc.

604 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

This is a highly organized and stimulating town to live in, owing in
large part to the presence of Hobart College and the Cornell adjunct, the
New York State Agricultural Experiment Station, The faculties offer
the community a fine calibre of scholar and citizen. With improved
roadways we are only six hours from Boston and get up to visit every
chance we can. The family looks forward to June and Cambridge.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 7175 S.W. Dogwood PI1., Portland 25, Oregon.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 610 American Bank Bldg., Portland 5, Oregon.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln High School, Portland, Oregon.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. pECREES: a.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.p., 1942.

marrieD: Esther N. Belt, April 30, 1953. cri~pREN: Christopher, Oct. 13, 1946
(adopted) ; Martha, Feb. 12, 1954; Nancy, Oct. 7, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Attorney, individual practice.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Oregon State Legislature, House of Representatives, 1951-
53; secretary, City Club of Portland, 1958; treasurer, Urban League of Port-
land, 1954; chairman, American Veterans Committee, 1950; chairman, Ad-
visory Committee to Oregon Blind Commission, 1960; legal adviser to Oregon
Legislature, 1955, 1957; vice-president, Harvard Alumni Association, 1957.

MEMBER OF: Oregon State Bar Association; Oregon Bureau of Labor, Wages &
Hours Conference; Family Counseling Service; UGN Budget Committee;
Tualatin Country Club.

My initial zeal for intellectual and social responsibility was of course
dampened by four years of service in the Air Corps, particularly by my
nineteen months in the South Pacific. I had enough energy left to be-
come politically active in the immediate postwar period, but in recent
years 1 have discovered that such activity interferes with my chosen
career as a middle class suburbanite. I cannot, however, quite agree with
a respected contemporary who recently pointed out to me that our gen-
eration has now had sufficient experience and sufficient knowledge to

achieve without extending itself. For this Puritan conscience I am most
grateful to Harvard.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 605

RICHARD HAROLD KUTZ

  
   

  
  

HOME Appress: R.D. 2, Mohnton, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 208 N. Sixth St., Reading, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREES: a.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1942.

MARRIED: Jean Scott Crawford, June 20, 1942 (died 1962). cHILDREN: Sandra
Scott, Aug. 1, 1943; Barbara, Oct. 4, 1946; Richard David, Dec. 20, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Attorney

OFFICES HELD: Assistant Attorney General, State of Pennsylvania, 1957-58.

Since 1961 I have operated a pony ranch in this locality known as the
Shangri-La Ranch. Visitors welcome. This is an avocation. Prices vary

from $100 to $2000 per pony. My prize pony of America is known as the
Black Cat.

CHARLES HAVEN LADD

HOME apprEss: 369 South St., Needham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dwight Rudd & Co., Inc., 176 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Phyllis A. Howe, Aug. 17, 1940, cuitprReN: Charles Haven, Jr., May 21,
1942; Dudley Howe, April 12, 1944; Philip Lee, Jan. 16, 1951.

HARVARD SON; Dudley Howe Ladd, 66.

OCCUPATION: Insurance broker and director, Dwight Rudd & Company, Inc.

606 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Insurance Brokers Association of Massachusetts,
since 1963; vestryman and elerk, Christ Eviscopal Church, Needham, Mass.,
1957-63; trustee and clerk, Brooks School, 1954-62, Dedham Country Day
Schoo]. since 1954; treasurer, Massachusetts Squash Racquets Association,
1952-35.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Dedham Country & Polo Club; Fly Club.

I graduated from Harvard without the foggiest notion of what I
wanted to do. | spent two months in Europe and returned to sell life
insurance for Travelers Insurance Company in Rockefeller Center, New
York City, an occupation I was patently unsuited for. The war came;
the Navy didn’t want me due to color blindness and I moved to Linden,
New Jersey, wih Phyllis and our first-born son into a war job. I was in
an engineering test department, kept records and drew graphs, RPMs
v. dry manifold pressure, ete. for two years when | was drafted. After
basic training I went to the University of Chicago as a Japanese language
student and then to Manila after the shooting had ceased, where I was
assigned to the War Crimes Court.

On return I came to Boston where Phyllis (a Brookline product) had
repaired during my absence. We bought a small house in Needham, our
second son had arrived by then, and I entered the general insurance
business, first with Patterson, Wylde & Windeler, a large general in-
surance agency, and then with Dwight Rudd & Company, Inc., a much
smaller operation. Thirteen people are in it at the moment and I am
director. A job counsellor advised me in 1946 to avoid selling but Pm
glad I didn’t. As an independent insurance broker J have had freedom of
movement. I like the people I do business with and there has been variety
—big people, little ones, and we insure anything from rabbits to air-
planes.

I have had good breaks; first and foremost a wife who has tolerated
me and produced three good boys and set up a good household. Need-
ham is a fine place to live; we are much at home here. We have a vege-

table and flower garden. I play golf ardently, if not well, and squash
during the winter, likewise, and we have many good friends throughout
this area. Our life involves constant activity which we think is often too
much though we haven't figured out how to cut it down. My other mild

regret is my seeming inability to save a nickel for the future. I wish my

three sons well and hope that they will be unselfish and contribute some
happiness to whatever world they find themselves performing in.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 607

FRANK LEWIS LAMBERT

 

HOME ApoprEss: 1105 Olancha Drive, Los Angeles, Calif. 90065.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Occidental College, 1600 Campus Rd., Los Angeles, Calif. 90041.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Duluth, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pDEcREES: a.B., cum laude, 1939; eH.v. (Univ. of
Chicago), 1942.

MARRIED: Bernice Webster, March 10, 1943.

OCCUPATION: Education; professor of chemistry, Occidental College.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Southern Section, 19£3, state president, 1963, California
Association of Chemistry Teachers; councilor, Southern California Section,
American Chemical Society, 1963; director, California Summer Conference on
Recent Advances in Chemistry, 1963; personnel chairman, 144th National
American Chemical Society Meeting, 1963.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; California Association of Chemistry
Teachers; American Association of University Professors; Sigma Xi; Alpha
Chi Sigma; American Association for the Advancement of Science.

PUBLICATIONS: Eleven scientific and professional articles.

Getting down the Class Album and the Tenth and Twenueth Reports
from the shelf makes difficult the writing of a clean and wise summary of
my life since graduation. There’s an unsettling feeling of bathos when I
look at those lumpy group photos of 1939 or the individuals challenging
life with their sharp eyes — because I can guess at the jowls and lines
which will show through the retouching in the Twenty-fifth shots, and
the sharpness in our eyes today may be more defensive than looking for
the new.

The more serious question behind every picture is, of course: What
really have you learned since then? The question has the greater sting
when we see the pictures of the men printed in the Tenth; 1941 or 1942
or 1944 seems a long time ago. But that’s all the time they had.

So I’m as lucky as any of us. I’ve had the time. But I haven’t learned
enough —.

Some details of the last twenty-five years are in previous Reports.
Ph.D. in organic chemistry in 1942, industrial research, army service,
more industry and then to college teaching in 1948. Married happily in
1943 and still so in 1963. Although we have no children this probably
has worked out well. 1 don’t see how I could put so much time on educat-
ing other people’s children if we had our own, And similar compensa-
tions do come from this substitution, (Without having to listen to reck
and roll records from the family roof.)

608 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

The emotional rewards of teaching are enormous, although potentially
deceptive, when keen youngsters want to accept what you have to pre-
sent. A mild counter comes when they’re bright enough to challenge you
in depth. This year is especially great for me because I’m on a study-
research sabbatical. No pressure except the flood of chem. literature
which daily washes away one’s modest beachhead of competence!

Religion? I think it’s essential as a check and balance on our confidence
in our abilities, The bigger the operator, the more the danger. Of course
I'm not referring to religious forms which simply reinforce self-satisfac-
tion nor to “peace-of-mind religion” which doesn’t strain one by the
dynamic tensions of (religious) existentialism.

“Politics? The future? The surge of radical conservatism — so terrify-
ingly well-financed — is the major internal threat. It will make increas-
ingly difficult any rational approach to basic national problems, just
when we urgently need a tremendous effort to research and to try po-

tential solutions—rather than to exorcise the problems with bumper
stickers.

ARTHUR LANE, JR.

 

Home appress: 1 North Ave., Weston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Peabody & Lane, Inc., 89 Broad St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: 4-B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Polly Linser, Nov. 5. 1945. cHILDREN: Thomas, Nov. 2, 1950; Charlotte
Ann, Oct. 14, 1954.
OCCUPATION: Steamship agent.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer/director, Balco Terminals, Inc.; president/director,
Kendall Common, Inc.; lieutenant, 19th C_B. Special.
MEMBER OF: Wardroom Club.

The waterfront knows
Machiavelli died broke.
He put it

In writing.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 609

HAROLD MARC LANE, JR.

 

HOME AppREss: 43 Brewster Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lerner Stores Corp., 354 Fourth Ave., New York, N.Y.; McCrory
Corp., 34th Street, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Renée Friedkin, March 17, 1945. cHitpren: Robin Dee, Oct. 20, 1948;
Laurie Ann, Nov. 15, 1950; Barbara Susan, June 14, 1953; Deborah Cathy,
Jan. 31, 1957.

occupaTion: Executive vice-president, Lerner Stores Corporation, McCrory
Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Jewish Family Service.

MEMBER OF: Quaker Ridge Golf Club.

I joined Lerner Stores after graduation. However, after only a few
years I was commissioned an ensign, S.C.. USNR and spent the next
three years in the Navy, returning to active duty as a lieutenant com-
mander.

I married Renée Friedkin in 1945 and rejoined Lerner Stores. Our
four daughters, Robin Dee, Laurie Ann, Barbara Susan and Deborah
Cathy were born from 1948 to 1957. A large family and the effort re-
quired in a large merchandising organization made for many happy and
busy years,

I was elected a vice-president in 1955, a director in 1956 and executive
vice-president in 1961 of Lerner Stores, In 1961 our organization joined
with the McCrory Corporation and we now had fifteen hundred stores
to think about. I became a vice-president of McCrory in 1961 and execu-
tive vice- -president in 1963. In addition to general merchandising and
operational supervision I became interested in the availability of greatly
improved electronic computers. It was my opinion that they offered
great potential in the processing and analysis of vast amounts of in-
formation. Our company today has one of the largest commercial
installations and its results, although in their infancy, have justified my
belief.

Twenty-five years later I can only wish for my four daughters a
similar college experience to Harvard.

610 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ROBERT EDWARDS LANE

  
  

i scPPRTS sh “
we i. :

    

x

    

wd \y

HOME Appress: 670 Prospect St., New Haven, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 855 Branford College, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
PREPARED AT: Lincoln School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREES: s.B., cum laude, 1939; m.p.a., 1946; a.m.,
1948; PHp., 1950.

MARRIED: Helen Sobol, Nov. 15, 1944. cHILDREN: Robert Lawrence, June 9, 1947;
Thomas Edwards, April 6, 1949.

occuPaTION: Professor of political science, Yale University.

OFFICES HELD: Fellow, Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences,
1956-57; member, National Council, American Political Science Association,

1962-63; member, editorial board, American Political Science Review,
1963-66.

MEMBER OF: Society for the Psychological Study of Social Issues; American
Sociological Association; American Political Science Association.

ruBLicaTions: The Regulation of Businessmen, 1954; Political Life: Why People
Get Involved in Politics, 1959; The Liberties of Wit; Humanism, Criticism,
and the Civic Mind, 1961; Political Ideology: Why the American Common
Man Believes VW hat He Does, 1962.

CHARLES ULYSSES LANGDELL

. Wa
“a i
* . o A +

oo

    
 

« . . aceqte ERE STH

eo
e

wend:

HOME ADDRESS; 42 Clark Rd., Andover, Mass,

orice appress: National Shawmut Bank of Boston, 40 Water St., Boston 6, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Wilton High School, Wilton, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; M.B.a., 1941.

marnieD: Ellen Willard, Dec. 10, 1938. cHitpKEN: Jonathan, April 11, 1943; Wil-
liam, April 10, 1950. .
OCCUPATION: Trust officer; manager of investment research department,

>

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 611

JAMES SWAIN LANIGAN

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: American Embassy, New Delhi, India; APO 675,
New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Western High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1939, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1943(47).

MARRIED: Mary Montgomery, Feb. 5, 1943. cHitpren: Robert Montgomery, Jan.
18, 1940; James Swain, Jr., June 8, 1945; William, July 7, 1947.

HARVARD SON: James Swain Lanigan, Jr., 67.

OCCUPATION: Commercial Counselor, American Embassy, New Delhi, India.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Stevens Development Company and Helmsley-Spear
Company, New York City; Democratic State Committeeman, New York
County, 1960; Democratic District Leader, First Assembly District, New
York County, 1961-63.

After I graduated from college, I worked for a year as an educational
director of a Civilian Conservation Corps camp. The following year I
entered Harvard Law School. I left the Law School during my second
year to enter the Navy and spent three and a half years as a naval
officer on escort vessels in the Atlantic and Pacific. During this period,
in 1943, I married Mary Montgomery. We have raised three sons:
Robert, twenty-three years old, a graduate of Wesleyan University and
now doing military service in the Marine Corps; James, Jr., eighteen
years old, a freshman at Harvard; and William, sixteen years old, with
us in New Delhi.

1 graduated from the Law School in March, 1947, and joined a New
York law firm. At the end of a year and a half 1 went to Washington
and worked in the office of the General Counsel of ECA, the economic
recovery program for Europe. I was assigned to work with Congress
on legislative matters and spent two very rewarding years on this job.

In 1950 I was assigned to Averell Harriman who had been appointed
Assistant for Foreign Affairs in the White House by President Truman.
I performed Congressional liaison duties in connection with foreign
policy legislation and I remained with Mr. Harriman in this capacity
when he became Director of Mutual Security a year later.

During the 1952 presidential campaign I resigned from the Federal
government and became assistant campaign manager to Governor Adlai
Stevenson in Springfield, Illinois, where I worked closely with Mr.
Stevenson.

In 1954 I became vice-president of the Stevens Development Cor-

612 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ration, a real estate investment group in New York, headed by Roger
L. Stevens. During the following ten years [ participated in the initia-
tion of a number of urban development housing projects around the
country. | remained in the real estate business in New York City until
the summer of 1963. During this decade, from 1953 to 1963, I became
very active in New York politics. I helped organize and was the first
president of the Samuel J. Tilden Democratic Club in Manhattan, ]
played an active role in Governor Harriman’s campaign both in 1954
and 1958. When the reform movement was started under the leader-
ship of Mrs. Roosevelt, Senator Herbert Lehman and Lloyd Garrison —
a movement to break the power of Tammany Hall — I was nominated
for State Committee against the Tammany slate. I] ran and was success-
ful. In 1961, a year later, 1 was nominated by an insurgent Democratic
Club in Greenwich Village to oppose Carmine DeSapio, the incumbent
district leader and the leader of Tammany Hall. I ran once again and
was successful, During this period I also served on Governor Rocke-
feller’s bipartisan Committee for Constitutional Reform and on Mayor
Wagner’s Committee Against Discrimination in Housing, and on his
Ciuzens’' Committee for revision of the New York City rent control law.
In 1963, Ambassador Chester Bowles asked me to join his Mission in
India as Counselor for Commercial Affairs. The job is to encourage
and help private American investment in India and I accepted en-
thusiastically. | write this biography from my home in New Delhi, one
block from the Embassy, where Mary, Bill and I have resided since
September. | am deeply impressed by the superb effort that the United
States is making to help the less developed nations pass through the
convulsions of social and economic revolution into more stable societies.
This appears to me to be the central fact of our time, made more
urgent by the existence of thermo-nuclear weapons. I am pleased to find
that Harvard has contributed, from the White House to the furthest

extremities of the jungles, competent and dedicated men who are playing
a major role in this effort.

GEOFFREY J. LANNING

   

  

ag:

Home aponess: 2948 N. 26th St, Arlington 7, Va.
OFEICKE ADDKESS: Assistant solicitur, Department of Interior Washington 25, D.C
’ ’ J,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 61 3

PREPARED AT: Shaker Heights High School, Shaker Heights, Ohio.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1942.

MARRIED: Maxine Beryl Pulliam, Dec. 24, 1944. CHILDREN: Geoffrey B. L., Feb.
8, 1946; Michael J.. May 31, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Assistant solicitor, Department of Interior.

OFFICES HELD: Finance manager, precinct leader, etc., for “ABC” good government
coalition in Arlington, Va.; cub scout leader in Arlington; member, Tax
Roundtable Council, American Association of Law Schools; professor or
other faculty post at a number of law schools including Yale, Indiana, Wis-
consin, St. Louis University, and Catholic University.

PUBLICATIONS: Two lead articles in University of Pennsylvania Law Review (1960) ;

article for House Ways and Means Committee in Tax Revision Compendium
of 1959.

My professional career has been spent in government and teaching, or
both, and always in the framework of an effort to achieve my notions
of the public interest — that is, a closer rapport between our ideals of a
democratic society and the actual way we operate, much of which seems
to favor special advantage. I may have occasionally accomplished some
small part of these goals, but not nearly enough. I can thank Harvard
College for a good portion of the insight which I hope I have into
these problems (despite three years at Harvard Law School),

After three and a half years in the Navy, mostly as a Japanese
language intelligence officer, I joined the legal staff of the Federal
Communications Commission as an attorney in Washington in 1946 and
in 1948 took charge of a Security and Exchange Commission office in
St. Louis. I taught law part time during this period and from 1950 to
1951 became a visiting professor at Indiana Law School. Thereafter I
became assistant chief counsel of the Coast Guard. In despair of the
semi-military mind, I shifted to Internal Revenue as an attorney and
spent six years from 1953 to 1959 vainly resisting the creation of new
tax loopholes.

In 1958 I did graduate work at Yale Law School and in 1959 was in-
vited to teach at Yale Law, giving courses in taxation and in oil and gas
law from 1959 to 1960. Thereafter I served variously as a special assist-
ant, first to the Deputy Administration of the Federal Aviation Agency,
and then to the Federal Power Commission. I am presently assistant
solicitor of the Interior Department and heavily involved in the excite-
ment and politics of our vast reclamation programs. I also teach law at
Catholic University twice a week.

I married Maxine Pulliam of Boulder, Colorado, in 1944 at Pearl
Harbor. My wife helps our community in many ways as a member of
the State Board of the League of Women Voters and as chairman of a
local Planning Commission Committee. We have two boys, Geoffrey
and Michael, who are nice fellows as well as capable. Jeff hopes to go to
Harvard next year, and I suppose that Mike will be making his decision
soon,

Harvard College opened vistas and avenues for me that might other-

prise have remained closed, I remain grateful for what the College did
or me. "

614 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

J

ere

OHN DAVID LANNON

      

HOME ADDRESS: 333 E. 68th St., New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Electromotive Dynamics Corp., 220 Fifth Ave., New York 1, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

marrieD: Barbara Winlock, Nov. 2, 1940. cnHipREN: William Winlock, February,
1942; James Daland, August, 1945; Patricia Janeway, September, 1961.

occupaTION: General manager, manufacturing company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Selchow Righter & Co., 1955-61, Sea-
board Marine Supply Co.; former member, Selective Service, six years; mem-
ber, board of managers, New York Episcopal City Mission Society; member,
board of directors, Windham Children’s Service; vestryman and treasurer,
Church of the Epiphany; member, New York County Grand Jury; member,
board of managers, Harvard Club of New York; member, board of governors,
Union Club of New York; president, St. Nicholas Society, New York City;
chairman, Elko Lake Camps,

MEMBER OF: New England Society.

Five years of active duty on minesweepers, converted yachts, destroyer
escorts through 1946, Then five more years in Naval Reserve. Duty all
Atlantic, participating in and alongside during capture of U.so05 just be-
fore D-Day in 1944. Scared to death she would blow up as she should
have. Commanded USS Jenks (DE665) at end of war.

Joined Macy’s, New York, in 1946 and went through various depart-
ment managerial jobs becoming toy buyer in 1961, Went around the
world buying for Macy’s in 1962, and to Japan and Hong Kong in 1963.
Came to love Japan. Left Macy’s to become general manager of Electro-
motive Dynamics Corporation, manufacturing and selling rechargeable
lights, also consultant to Henry Sears & Company.

Married to the finest person in the world and after twenty-four years
still very deeply in love. Three delightful children who have provided
problems (not great) which have made life interesting. William gradu-
ated from Bowdoin in 1963; James graduated from Milton Academy in
1963, and is about to enter Lawrence College of Pusey fame; Patricia is
now at Nightingale.

1am a deeply grateful man who owes Harvard a great deal, and who
valucs his Harvard friendships (and all other friendships) as the greatest
reward life can bestow.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 615

ADRIAN JAN PIETERS LA RUE

yeeros

   
 

 

HOME apprEss: 15 Edgehill Drive, Darien, Conn. 06820.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Graduate School of Arts and Sciences, New York University,
New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: University High School, Ann Arbor, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1940. pEGREES: $.B., magna cum laude, 1939(40) 3 M.F.A.
(Princeton Univ.), 1942; pu.p. (Harvard Univ.), 1952.

MARRIED: Helen Claire Robison, Aug. 21, 1940. cHInpREN: Chari, Dec. 24, 1945;
Christine, Jan. 19, 1948.

occuPATION: Professor of music, Graduate School; editor and writer of musicologi-
cal books and articles.

OFFICES HELD: National secretary, 1953-55, vice-president, 1963, past and present
member of the council and executive board, American Musicological Society;
Arrangements Committee for 8th Congress, New York, 1961, U.S. Member of
editorial board, chairman of committee on international exchange of doctoral
dissertations, International Musicological Society.

MEMBER OF: Music Library Association; College Music Society; Gesellschaft juer
Musikforschung; Galpin Society; Vereniging voor Muziekeschiedenis; Society
for Ethnomusicology; Tokeneke Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Report of the 8th Congress of the International Musicological
Soctety, 2 vols., 1961-62, Festchrift fuer Otto Erich Deutsch, 1963, Aspects of
Medieval and Renaissance Music, 1964; “Native Music on Okinawa,” Musical
Quarterly, 1945; “Harmonic Rhythm in the Beethoven Symphonies,” Music
Reveiw, 1957; “A System of Symbols for Formal Analysis,” Journal of
American Musicological Society, 1957; “Major and Minor Mysteries of
Identification in the 18th-century Symphony,” Journal of the American Musi-
cological Society, 1960; “Watermarks and Musicology,” Acta Musicologica,
1961; contributor to New Oxford History of Music, Enciclopedia Ricordi,
Musik in Geschichte und Gegenwart, Grolier Encyclopedia.

Career, Since graduation I have made two changes in my special field,
though remaining in the general area of music. In 1940 as Paine Travling
Fellow I journeyed to Princeton (Europe being impractical) to study
composition for two years with Roger Sessions, acquiring the M.F.A.
degree en passant. I then taught for a year at Wellesley before entering
the Army. After surviving OCS (transportation) I became a stevedore
officer in a port company, stationed first at Charleston and later unload-
ing ammo in the last phases of the Okinawa campaign. After V-J Day I
was marooned for a year on Okinawa, during which time I helped to
organize the G.I. Okinawa University. In free time I studied the native
music, collecting material that later formed the basis for my Ph.D.
dissertation (The Okinawan Classical Songs, Harvard, 1952).

616 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

After my discharge from the Army I returned to full-time teaching at
Wellesley, rising from instructor to associate professor, serving for seven
years as department chairman. During this same period I returned as a
part-time graduate student to Harvard and largely abandoned composi-
tion for musicology, at first stressing ethnomusicology and the Orient.
This area required more work on languages than music, however, so |
turned back to earlier interests in the classical period. For two years
(1954-56) I traveled in Europe (family based in Vienna) as a Fulbright
Research Professor, collecting material for my present specialty, the late
eighteenth century, with emphasis on the symphony and concerto, In
1957 I joined the faculty of the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences,
New York University, where I have greatly enjoyed the closer relation-
ship of graduate teaching to my research. Last year I was appointed
executive dean of Arts and Sciences and dean of the Graduate School.
The nature of upper level administration proved to be quite different
from my expectations: it is far more concerned with finance and per-
sonnel problems than with educational policy. Under the tremendous
pressures of the executive life, it soon became clear that I would have
time for little more than occasional superficial gestures towards the
scholarly projects for which I had made such extensive bibliographical
and analytical foundations. When I was offered reappointment I finally
decided that research and teaching meant more than money and _ ad-
ministrative power, and I resigned to return to the academic life. This
decision has proved to be a happy choice and I expect the next few years
to be exceptionally productive. In addition to my eighteenth century
studies, 1 am attempting to establish a “new criticism” in musicology, a
comprehensive system of stylistic analysis to be described in my next
book, Elements of Style Analysis (now under contract with W. W.
Norton).

Family. On moving to New York University we found a delightful
“older” house in Darien overlooking the Sound and only a three-minute
walk from a small tennis and swimming club (Tokeneke Club). This
fulfilled several long-term family objectives and we spent considerable
time on the courts and on or in or just watching the water.

As the children have become more self-sufficient, Helen decided to
take a Ph.D. degree in remedial reading at Columbia. Before finishing
her work, however, she was offered a job at the New Canaan Country
School where she now teaches full time, a strenuous but rewarding pro-
gram. Both of our daughters are good students, a bit harassed by the
competitive atmosphere resulting from hopes and fears for college ad-
missions, pressures that did not exist in our day. Chari (seventeen) favors
biological sciences: she spent the summer in the pathology lab of the
New York Eye and Ear Infirmary. Christine (fifteen) exhausts several
new interests each year, plays violin to my piano in Mozart sonatas. We
all feel that life is full and interesting, if somewhat’ too crowded from
time to time.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 61 7

FRANCIS COOPER LAWRANCE +

  
 

   

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 102] Park Ave., New York, N.Y. 10028.

CHARLES WELLES LAWRENCE

BORN: Sept. 8, 1918, Wysox, Pa. PARENTS: Schuyler Lawrence, Mary Welles.
PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936.

DIED: July 14, 1936, Towanda, Pa.

Charles Welles Lawrence had completed the freshman year with ou —
Class before his death in the summer of 1936.

618 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

FRANK DODD LAWRENCE

ne

arpa ee
a

  

HOME apprESS: 103 Chestnut St., Montclair, NJ.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Associated Press, 50 Rockefeller Plaza, New York, N.Y.
PREPARED aT: Montclair High School, Montclair, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Fleanor Remsen, Jan. 3], 1953.

occupation: Library assistant in Newsphoto Library, Associated Press, wire
service.

MEMBER OF: Montclair Chapter, Sons of the American Revolution; Breen-Me-
Cracken Post, American Legion, West Philadelphia, Pa.; Montclair Dramatic

Club (associate member) ; Harvard Club of New Jersey; First Congregational
Church, Montclair, N_J.

I was born in Spring Lake, New Jersey, less than a half a mile from the
ocean— not too far from our family summer home. Later, for twelve
years, my brother, Howard, M.LT. ’38, and I sailed a Barnegat Sneak
Box at the Belmar Yacht Club, Belmar, New Jersey. Sam Cole, ’39, had
a boat in the same fleet. 1 did some publicity for the yacht club. We
lived in Newark, New Jersey, at first, then Montclair until 1944. From
there, a few years on a farm in Pittstown, New Jersey — lovely country.
My father was a general agent for the Lincoln National Life Insurance
Company and commuted to Newark until he died in 1946. My mother
now lives in Verona, New Jersey. My brother is with R.C.A. in Camden.

I went from Montclair High School to Harvard where I took tickets
at the indoor athletic building one winter, seeing about half of each meet,
and ushered at home football games for three years. There was and is
nothing like the Stadium for fresh air, rain, snow, etc. That is why my
wife, Eleanor, and I usually see a football game or two each year. We
also enjoy seeing classmates there. In 1937 I worked at the “trading
posts” at the National Boy Scouts Jamboree in Washington. I had gone
as far as Star Scout as a boy. In January, 1960, I returned to Boy Scouts
as a “neighborhood commissioner,” have served in two councils, and hope
to continue indefinitely. 1 enjoy working with boys.

For nine months after graduation | had a number of jobs — house-to-
house selling, accordion playing, selling job printing, and a walk-on part
ina play. Then | worked for a Newark advertising agency for a year
and a half Iearning some proofreading, art filing, letcer writing, and lots
of messenger work. After that came a couple of months as a mess boy
on a cruise ship going to the Caribbean, and then about five months in

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 619

stock and on the trucks for Bamberger’s department store, Newark. Then
came a few months of life insurance selling for my father. Next, in the
Army from December, 1942, to July 26, 1945. I did not get overseas but
saw a lot of the United States. 1 made PFC on my birthday. I was a
clerk-typist in Personnel Affairs in the Air Transport Command and then
went through advanced Infantry training in Louisiana where I had some
trouble with a leg. I ate lunch at Antoine’s on my way home. The war
was over in a couple of weeks, I wrote five columns for a base paper as
a substitute for another fellow in the A.T.C.

Out of the Army, | tried to sell life insurance again (also had a special
week’s course at the University of Connecticut in life insurance before I
went into the Army and another similar in August, 1945). During 1945-46
I studied insurance and other business subjects at the Wharton School,
University of Pennsylvania, for a time. I did not do too well and, in
retrospect, would have taken a lighter load. I was elected historian of
the Veterans Club at Penn. I sold subscriptions and advertising and wrote
a few columns for a veterans’ paper in Philadelphia. In the summer of
1946 I sold a couple of articles to the Newark Sunday Call. I then ran
the store at Hackley School, Tarrytown, New York, for a couple of
months. Next I worked in stock at Macy’s, won the twelfth prize in a
suggestion contest, but quit for a long vacation in Florida.

When I came back in March, 1947, I went to work for photos at the
Associated Press and have been there ever since in the photo library do-
ing research and filing. I have had a few articles printed in the AP
World, the internationally-circulated house organ, and have also had a
hand in some feature work. Also in the photo library helping guard the
millions of negatives and prints is Richard Carroll, Class of 1952. In the
library we once had a charming Radcliffe graduate, too, Social Register
and all, She brought her lunch like anybody else. Nowadays we have a
Schrafft’s cafeteria which has changed things a little. Their soup goes
very well with the sandwiches my wife makes with her homemade
bread. No kidding, white, whole wheat, oatmeal, rye, and sometimes .
cheese bread, raisin or currant bread, date-nut bread, and Boston brown
bread. When we got married in 1953 I had an apartment in New York
near Columbia University. That year I took two terms in news and news
features writing at the Columbia School of General Studies. The Market
Growers Journal, published by Ed Babcox, 39, and family printed a
short article I wrote about special tomatoes. The Montclair Times used
a few paragraphs by me about a farm in New Hampshire. The Ridge-
wood (New Jersey) newspapers paid me for a report on how a milkman
got to work on a very snowy Saturday, The snow plows were slow
but he made it, and I made it to work too, though late. I rode with the
milkman part of the way. I also do some other writing occasionally, in-
cluding the words and music of a simple song we tape recorded for an
AP party.

Eleanor and I stayed in New York until 1955, then lived in a garden
apartment for three years in Hackensack, and spent the next three years
in a two-family house in Hasbrouck Heights, Finally, fed up with rent-
ing, we bought our hundred-year-old house in Montclair. We love it,
although our big hemlocks do provide our garden with a little too much
shade. Inexperienced as I am, though persistent, I count the fruit from

620 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

our pea crop one by one. We have, however, lilies of the valley by the
thousands and have great hopes for new azaleas, a holly tree, a gingko
tree, a dogwood tree, and a Norway spruce. We have also shifted paving
blocks around to make a lovely terrace where we enjoy outdoor cooking
served on a white table under an umbrella. Eleanor engineered the ter-
race and leveled each piece while I tried to monopolize the heavy work.
In Montclair, Eleanor and | belong to the Iris Gardens Committee where
duties involve writing some publicity, weeding in the gardens in the
park, and attending teas.

Eleanor attended Virginia Incermont Junior College at Bristol, Virginia.
She was a Red Cross Gray Lady for a few years at Hackensack Hospital,
Hackensack, New Jersey. She works on a part-time basis for Remsen
and Lamm, her father’s New York law firm. She is a committee chair-
man on the board of the evening membership department of the Re-
publican County Committee in Essex County, New Jersey. To wind
this up, perhaps, the following poem composed on an early bus commuta-
tion to New York shows a little peaceful philosophy:

Church by the Passaic River (February 25, 1963)
An old stone church
With its old stained glass
And its tall thin spire
With a cross up high.
The river’s before it,
And in between
An expressway ramp;
But it doesn’t spoil
The view for old Christians
Like me and you.

JULIAN JACOB LEAVITT

     

sl =
LAL) OLY

HOME aponess: L101 W. Fighth St. Plainfield, NJ,

Orrick AbukEss: American Cyanamid Cy, Bound Brook, NJ,

rinvaken at: Public Latin School, Boston, Maes.

YEAHS IN COLDLILE: 1959-1959. DEGREES: AB, magna cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1940;
rH, Vdd,

weaniino: Frances Victoria Albert. Dee. 1943.) cHILpREN: Robert Matthew,
(det. 15, 1944+ Phyllis Ellen, April 23, 1947; Anne Irene, July 8, 1950.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 621

HARVARD SON: Robert Matthew Leavitt, 66.

occuPpATION: Manager, Dyes Research and Development, American Cyanimid
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Councilor, American Chemica] Society; director, Caleco Federal
Credit Union; past president, Men’s Club, trustee, Temple Sholom.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Chemical Society; American Association
of Textile Chemists and Colorists; American Contract Bridge League.

PUBLICATIONS: Three publications; fourteen U.S. patents.

The speed with which twenty-five years have flown by must, I think,
be some indication that things have gone well. Family, job and outside
interests have left little time for idleness, except during much enjoyed
vacations in Rockport where I can unwind completely. They are con-
stant reminders that time is starting to make its passage felt, but, if luck
holds out, I should be able to keep up this pace for several years more.

Shortly after Pearl Harbor my thesis research was ended in favor of
work on explosives for the National Defense Research Committee; never-
theless, the University permitted me to take my Ph.D. degree. In the fall
of 1942 the project was transferred to the University of Pennsylvania,
where I spent the next two years before moving on to my present job.
Nineteen years in a single area is something of an anomaly in industrial
research today, but the chemistry involved has changed continuously, so
that there has never been occasion for boredom. My primary responsibili-
ties are now administrative and chemistry has become my chief avocation,
taking up most of my reading time and leading me to serve as a section
editor for Chemical Abstracts.

Fran and I will celebrate our twentieth wedding anniversary this De-
cember with our three teen-agers: Bob (’66), who is majoring in architec-
tural science; Phyllis, in her junior year at high school; and Anne, who is
finishing junior high. Raising them according to our apparently obsolete
standards has been demanding, but the satisfactions are great. They are
growing away from us rapidly now and too soon we'll be alone again.

I have always been active in the American Chemical Society and have
served in several capacities in its North Jersey Section. Also on the pro-
fessional side, | am on an advisory committee to the National Academy
of Sciences — National Research Council — and on one of the research
committees of the American Association of Textile Chemists and Color-
ists. In the last few years I have become involved with our Temple af-
fairs, not only because of my own religious needs, but also from my con-
viction that religious actions must provide the leadership to unravel our
pressing social problems.

My chief personal concern is the increasing effort required to maintain
individuality in the face of the constant pressures to conformity. Maybe
it is only age and its accompanying conservatism that is edging my politi-
cal convictions from the left to the middle right, but I am ever more
alarmed at the growing concentration of power in a federal government
that is losing whatever touch it has had with the individual and prefers
to treat him as a statistic in a faceless mass. There are obvious areas
where the fight for equality of rights must be continued, but it is just
as important to: fight against too much equality when it means seeking the
lowest common denominator, rather than the highest.

Happy? Yes! Contented? No! Smug? Thope not! Fungible? Never!

622 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

LEONARD EUGENE LEBOEUF

      

HOME ADDRESS: 2 E. Main St., Webster, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 297 Main St., Webster, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Bartlett High School, Webster, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1942.

MARRIED: Fernande C. Couture, Sept. 10, 1940. cHILDREN: Nadine G., April 10,
1948; Monique F., June 16, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Attorney; private practice.

OFFICES HELD: President, local Chamber of Commerce; chairman, Webster School
Committee, four years; director, Webster Academy; trustee, Webster Five
Cent Savings Bank.

MEMBER OF: Rotary; Worcester County Bar Association; Southern Worcester
County Bar Group; Webster Sailing Association; Normandy Club; Harvard
Club of Worcester.

After law school I opened a private practice and the following year
found me in the service. A background in languages and law made me
Infantry material and fatalistic enough to accept it — in a private and out
a captain with some dull and some interesting experiences in between, in-
cluding a postwar period in the Philippines and Japan.

In 1946 I returned to the practice of country law in Webster, Massa-
chusetts, and for the next five years I spent my time in the pursuit of
life, liberty and accumulation. I was married in 1940 while sull in law
school; and since I am by nature impetuous, our first child was born in
1948.

I was recalled to active duty during the Korean War, this time in the
Judge Advocate Department, and was sent to France where I served as
prosecutor for General Courts. This tour of duty was pleasant and in-
volved no heavy lifting. In 1952 I returned to the pleasures and burdens
of practicing law in a community the economy of which is based upon
the textile and shoe industry. Almost annually I go to Washington on
behalf of one of our industries in an effort to stem the constant lowering
of tariffs, Through escape clause procedures and in various hearings we
have been fortunate enough to secure some modicum of success along
these lines. I joined and am a member of the usual clubs and have been on
the school committee for six years. The only consistent opinion that the
public has about any school committeeman is that (1) “He doesn’t know
what he is doing,” and (2) “Anyone else could do a better job.” We have
the usual problems — teachers, salaries, building space and politics.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 623

During this period we acquired our present home, second daughter,
summer camp, two small sail boats and still paid our taxes. It is a source
of constant amazement to me how all of these facilities, including govern-
mental, can be supported by the puny efforts of one man. Hobbies are
sailing, hunting, ice fishing and before-dinner cocktails.

All in all, it has been and is a good life which will become even more
satisfying if the Republicans win in 1964.

JAMES JOSEPH LEDGARD, JR. +

a

   
  

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 53 Pinewood Drive, Levittown, Pa.

JOHN HARRIS LEE +

aa at aaa eR

 

A
a1

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: Congress Street, Pembroke, Mass.

624 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

DEXTER PHILLIPS LeROY +

 

arse ATEN

genes AHET
eee

 

HOME aAppbreESS: 217 Hommocks Rd., Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Blaine-Thompson Co., Inc., 234 W. 44th St, New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Scarsdale High School, Scarsdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Norma Sharfman, March 10, 1940. cumpren: Jeri, May 30, 1943; Penny,
Sept. 19, 1948; Juliet, Dec. 16, 1954.

occupaTION: President, advertising agency.

OFFICES HELD: President, Blaine-Thompson Company, Air Entertainments, Inc.;
director, Henry St. Settlement.

MEMBER OF: Sheldrake Yacht Club; Larchmont Men’s Club.

After being graduated from Harvard, I joined an advertising agency
and have been associated with it ever since, except for a hiatus of some
four years during World War Il, during which I served in the Air
Force. I enlisted in a reserve training program in 1942, was activated in
1943, and by the curious mystery of the armed services practice of
fitting square pegs into round holes, was turned into a technician work-
ing in electronics in an experimental guided missiles program, too ad-

a er CO

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 625

vanced for significance in that past war, too primitive for significance
in any future conflict.

I married in a little less than a year after leaving college — I met my
wife while at Harvard (she was at Wellesley). We started collecting
daughters three years later——the first just before I entered the armed
services. We had a second when we felt we were sufficiently reclaimed
into civilian life. Our third girl was born after approximately the same
time interval that separated the first two, when we mistakenly thought
we could afford the process.

We lived in New York City in apartments before the war; in houses
in Westchester (White Plains, then Larchmont) after it. Although we
decry it, surburbia has firmly branded its stamp of conformity upon us
— procreation, commutation, conspicuous consumption and the P.T.A,

I am the head of my business —a result more attributable to an in-
herited interest in the firm than to the superiority of my mental equip-
ment or the energy of my activity, formidable though I am willing to
admit both of those accomplishments are. I enjoy a higher income than
I ever hoped to attain while I was at college. | find it difficult if not
downright impossible to live within that income.

During the past five years much of our leisure has been spent in sail-
ing — cruising, not racing. We have an auxiliary yawl, and we have
tried to escape in it for a month each summer.

It has been a privileged life and, on the whole, a pleasant one, although
at times I feel a lack of social purpose and higher significance. Its satis-
factions have been realized primarily in family life. My politics remain
liberal, but hardly passionate. We have a certain amount of involve-
ment in communal and eleemosynary activities. But I] have neither found
the cause nor made the crusade that at times I contemplated during
Adams House bull sessions.

Jeri, my eldest daughter, is in her junior year at Wellesley. Penny,
our middle girl, is completing sophomore year at Mamaroneck High
School, struggling valiantly against the pressures that weigh so heavily
upon our children who hope to attend one of the eastern colleges. Our
grammar school girl, Juliet, rules our household and does her best to
convince us that we are young enough to be her parents.

Perhaps this is as good a vantage point as ever I will have to evaluate
the worth and efficiency of the education we received at Harvard. I
find that the years at Cambridge stand up very well in this retrospect.
They had meaning, were more stimulating than any comparable period
of my life; definitely an aid to growth and maturity. It would scarcely
be just to fault them for any lack of dynamism that has been a feature
of my subsequent twenty-five years, Certainly, they have been invalua-
ble in reconciling myself to my present position—that of a relatively
privileged if not particularly distinguished member of a very affluent
society within the dominant life form of a totally insignificant planet in a
most provincial corner of the cosmos.

626 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939 |

HARRY LESSER, JR.

    

HOME appress: 8035 Seminole P]., Clayton 5, Mo.

OFFICE abpREsS: Stix, Baer & Fuller, 601 Washington Ave., St. Louis 1, Mo.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Dorothy Gordon, 1941 (divorced 1946); Alyce Levy, 1948. CHILDREN:
Harry, 3d, Dec. 27, 1942; Laurie Jo, April 2, 1952; Amy and Meg (twins),
Aug. 7, 1956.

OccUPATION: Department store buyer.
MEMBER OF: St. Charles Club; Westwood Country Club.

After graduation I worked for a few years in the envelope business,
got married, entered the Navy as an ensign, had a son, served as a radar
and anti-submarine warfare officer on a destroyer escort in the South
Atlantic for three and a half years, returned home and was shortly di-
vorced, Started a retail clothing store, which eventually multiplied into
four stores, and remained in this business until 1960 when I sold it.

I was married in 1948 to Alyce Levy, and we have three lovely daugh-
ters. We spend our summers in Charlevoix, Michigan, where we have a
home and boat. We do a lot of water skiing, and are ardent boating en-
thusiasts.. My other hobbies are tropical fish and gardening. I went to
work for a department store when I sold my business a few years ago.
I’ve held various positions there and am presently buying for several de-
partments; garden supplies, barbecue equipment, summer furniture, elec-
tric appliances, kitchen furniture, dinette sets, and what have you.

My politics have been steadily Republican, We're looki
retiring to some warm spot where we can boat all
planned so that we should be able to do this before t

ng forward to
year long, and have
oo long.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 627

MELVIN LOUIS LEVIN

 

NE

HOME ADDRESS: 133 A\ — West Newton, Masa,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Business Equipment Corp., 255 Atlantic Ave., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mags.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; M.B.a., 1941,

MARRIED: Anita S, Shenberg, April 24, 1949. cuitonen: Andrew Victor, Nov. 13,
1950; Charles Roger, Jan. 11, 1953; James Lawrence, Feb. 5, 1955.

OCCUPATION: President, Business Equipment Corp.; retail business furniture.

OFFICES HELD: President, National Office Furniture Association, 1959,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Newton Squash and Tennis Club.

The facts are simple; the pattern not unusual: business school, Navy,
business venture, marital adventure, children, a growing establishment
—at home and in the city — and all the implications, ramifications and
accoutrements thereof.

I spend my working days at Business Equipment Corporation in
Boston, the largest firm of its kind in New England. Growth has been
steady since we opened the doors in 1946, and, as president of the firm,
I have been very much involved in its trials by fire, as well as in the
enjoyment of the fruits of accomplishment. Probably too involved!
It’s been difficult over the vears to detach myself from the daily fret and
care, and I regret my inability (or unwillingness) to devote more time
to nourishing other appetites of the “compleat” man (especially the
“Compleat” Family Man) and, speaking of the “compleat” man, rue-
fully 1 must admit to changes, gradual but now very much in evidence
— less hair and very grey —a larger suit size (especially at the waist) —
a chubbier face —a little shortness of breath (oh! that it were breathless-
ness instead! ), but with all of it, nevertheless still active —I work dili-
gently, though not as long — and I keep up a few athletic pursuits with
great relish (squash and skiing being the favorites). I don’t read enough,
see a great deal of theatre most of which I enjoy, attend football games
faithfully at the Stadium (for the “tail-gaiting” as well as the sport).
I enjoy parties and dances, cocktails, provocative conversation, homilies
and philosophies but, twenty-five years later, still as a listener, not a talker.

The Establishment ( domestic) is always a source of ‘wonder and
pleasure, and I sit tonight in the quiet of our home, now that the chil-
dren are asleep, fervently wishing for peace, good health and peace of
mind for myself and my loved ones.

628 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

My social and political convictions are liberal (at least I like to think
so). It’s much easier to be objective about one’s appearance than one’s
attitudes and basic philosophy. My sympathies are much the same in
1964 as in 1939.

I welcome this opportunity to take stock, to think back, and to look
ahead — recognizing the mixture of bitter and sweet in days past and

knowing it will be the same in days to come. I wish the best to one
and all.

JOSEPH LEVINE

    

HOME appress: P.O, Box 28, West Falmouth, Mass.
OFFICE appRESs: Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; s.m. (Univ. of New
Mexico), 1956.

MARRIED: Erva C. Cameron, July 2, 1949. cHmpren: Ruth Leslie and Rebecca
Lynn (twins), Sept. 9, 1950; Roxanne Lucette, Sept. 25, 1953.

occupation: Research and associate doing work in cloud physics and dynamics,
Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution.

MEMBER OF: American Meteorological Society; Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: “Statistical explanation of spontaneous freezing of water droplets,”
NACA TN 2234, 1950; “Adaptation of a Cascade impactor to flight measure-
ment of a droplet size in clouds,” NACA RM E51605, 1951; “Spherical vortex

theory of bubble-like motion in-cumulus clouds,” Journal of Meteorology, 16,
959.

At the time of the Twentieth Reunion Report I was about to plunge
into the academic treadmill at M.I.T. At my age and with my family re-
sponsibilities a move to get a Ph.D, in meteorology was a very risky ven-
ture. Nevertheless, with the help and urging of my immediate supervisor
at the time, Dr, Joanne S. Malkus, I took the plunge.

Since then I have weathered two semesters of half-time course work
and the general examination for admission to candidacy for a Ph.D. de-
gree. Toward the end of May, 1963, 1 submitted my thesis which was re-
turned to me for further work, after I went through its defense. Now I
am among other things busy filling in the holes that were punched in my
work,

My research ever since I came to the Woods Hole Oceanographic
Institution has been intimately involved with aircraft meteorological
observation and instrumentation, I came to Woods Hole after some brief

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 6 29

contact with aircraft during World War II and considerable experience
in cloud physics and aircraft instrumentation acquired during my sojourn
at the Lewis Flight Propulsion Laboratory in Cleveland. My first field
trip from Woods Hole was made in August, 1956, in a PBY to study the
tropical atmosphere over the Caribbean Sea. Shortly thereafter a C-47
was exchanged for a C-54.

Last August we took part ina field trip at Barbados in which our C-54
and a Woods Hole ship took part. The field trip, which was organized
by Professor Malkus, was a cooperative venture by several organizations.
My particular interest was the observation of clouds with my instrument
system. As usual, because of the frantic rush to get ready and the difficul-
ties encountered in adapting my equipment to a new airplane, the results
were not all that I had hoped for. Neverthcless, ] am in the midst of
recalibrating my instruments and reducing the mountains of data from
the field trip.

A minor mishap to me during the trip, which could have been quite
serious, was a bad fall when the ladder | was using to climb into our C-
54 slipped out from under me. I fell a height of about eight feet, which
is the distance of the door’s threshold from the ground, and landed with
a sickening thud on my right buttock. At the time I was alone at the
airplane early in the morning before our scheduled flight attempting to
find an open circuit in one of my instrument lines. For several days I
was unable to sit comfortably and for a while sported a large black and
blue area on my buttock. Fortunately I can now reminisce about the
above incident with some amusement.

On looking back at my last twenty-five years, I don’t feel that 'd want
to do it over again, not because it was so perfect but because I have
followed such a rough road. I certainly wouldn’t recommend my path
to anyone else. Where am I now? | feel as if I have a rather shaky posi-
tion on the way up to some peak I haven’t reached yet, and my Ph.D. is
just a way station on the road that I am about to reach. I like my work,
but the demands it makes on my mental, physical, and emotional resources
are almost beyond endurance. In an excruciating way maybe I’m happy.
- In spite of heavy demands on my time during the last seven years by
my work, I had a little time for my twin girls just turned thirteen and
my littlest daughter ten years old. I look forward with trepidation to the
adolescent period that my daughters will go through. In the past I have
enjoyed such minor pleasures as teaching them to swim at the nearby
beach or taking them ice skating. Recently my youngest daughter
acquired an unaccountable yen for fishing with which I occasionally
help her. ,

We live in a big comfortable old white frame house, the oldest part of
which is about 150 years old. Our house doubles as a guest house as well
as our home. The house sits on the high part of our 3.36 acres of land
which is two-thirds swampland and is surrounded by trees, the best of
which is an old copper beech tree. I have almost an acre of grass to mow.
Unfortunately, I have neglected the numerous chores around the house,
because of my Ph.D. work. The best time of year here seems to
be autumn which gradually arrives shortly after the post Labor Day
hush descends on the Cape.

The value of getting into print has been so indelibly impressed on me

63 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

during my career as a scientist that I feel compelled to take advantage of
the opportunity to air my views on education and research here. Over
the years since ] got my A.B, at Harvard I have had the relatively unique
experience of feeling at first hand the effects of the gradual inflation of
graduate school demands on students in the physical sciences. When I
had just finished my undergraduate work in astronomy, I could have
gained admission to graduate work on physics at M.I-T. or Harvard pro-
vided that I was able to pay the tuition, but I chose to do graduate work
in meteorology instead because of my brief contact with the Blue Hill
Observatory and the close kinship of meteorology to astronomy as an ob-
servational and physical science. I was repelled from continuing with
my first love, astronomy, by the grim narrow intensity of the astronomers
at Harvard College Observatory and their diffident evaluation of my
ability based on my B average.

After my experience with development work during the war, I became
painfully aware of my limitations due to a sketchy knowledge of physics.
The postwar boom in physics therefore impelled me to do some graduate
work in physics. I found for example that the sudden flood of G.I. bill
students after the war had made my admission to graduate school in
physics at M.LT. and Harvard impossible. During the years after the
war and up to my connection with Woods Hole I have done some work
in physics at Purdue, Ohio State and the University of New Mexico.
However, I maintained my interest in meteorology over the years.

When I finally went back to M.LT. for my Ph.D. in meteorology, I
was made painfully aware of how much more demanding and difficult
the M.1.T. meteorology department had become than it had been in
1940 and 1941. The department head was still the same, but the changes
in the field since then coupled with the general rise in standards started
by the influx of G.I. bill students made it much harder for me to main-
tain a B average.

Now I’m not against the pursuit of excellence in education, but I
think that the educational currency in the form of grades is often taken
too literally, particularly in their use as a criterion for preselection or
prediction of future performance. In my eyes the grading system is pri-
marily a means for maintaining the continuity of accumulated human ex-

perience and only secondarily an evaluation of student capability.

[ also view with alarm the increased tendency toward hypervaluation of

degrees from the “ivy league” colleges. Contrary to established opinion,
1 know from personal experience that it is possible to get a good education
elsewhere. I deplore the tendency in our complex society to follow
poorly substantiated rules of thumb and labels in place of careful evalua-
tion on the basis of merit. Yet the sheer size and complexity of modern
society make it necessary to depend on the judgment of others. There-
fore, let us maintain flexibility of judgment and not harden the lines of
demarcation in our decision making. It is altogether too easy to draw
lines in connection with grades, degrees, colleges, ethnic groups, socio-
economic levels, cultures, religions, race, color, age, and sex.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 631

  

a oe

HOME ADDRESS: 28 River Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583.

OFFICE ADDRESS: IBM, Thomas J. Watson Research Center, P.O. Box 218, York-
town Heights, N.Y. 10598.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; a.M., 1940; PH.D.,
1942.

MARRIED: Edith E. Dubbs, Oct. 19, 1943. curtpren: Paula Sue, Jan. 16, 1946;
Deborah L., Feb. 19, 1951.

occupation: Research staff member, organic and polymer chemistry.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Association for the Advance-
ment of Science; Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers (senior
member).

PUBLICATIONS: Ph.D. thesis, “Catalytic Hydrogenation of Polynuclear Aromatics”;
“The Structure of Skita’s ‘Decahydro-9, 10-dihydroxy-phenanthrene,’” Journal
of American Chemical Society, 1942; “The Stereochemistry of Catalytic Hydro-
genation. 1. The Stereochemistry of the Hydrogenation of Aromatic Rings,”
Linstead, Doering, Davis, Levine and Whetstone, ibid. 1942; “VI. The Hydro-
genation of 9-Phenanthrol and Related Substances and the Identification of
Three of the Possible Stereoisomeric Forms of the Perhydrophenanthrene
Ring,” Linstead, Whetstone and Levine, ibid. 1942; “VII. The Complete
Hydrogenation of Phenanthraquinone,” Linstead and Levine, ibid. 1942; “VIII.
Phrolysis of the Six Perhydrodiphenic Acids — Limitations of the Blane Rule,”
Davis, Doering, Levine and Linstead, Journal of the Chemical Society, 1950;
“Chemical and Biological Studies on 1,2-Dihydro-s-triazines. IJ]. Two Com-
ponent Syntheses.” Modest and Levine, Journal of Organic Chemistry, 1956.
U.S. Patent 2,834, 763 (May 13, 1958), Halpern, Karo and Levine, Copolymers

of Trifluoroethyl Acrylate. U.S. Patent 2,957,914 (October 25, 1960), Halpern,

Karp and Levine, N.Alkylated Fluorinated Acrylamide Monomers. WADC

Report 54-264, Synthesis of Monomeric Materials’ WADC Report 55-217

Interlayer Materials Development. ,

After being admitted to the society of educated men, I risked inbreed-
ing by staying on at Harvard for graduate work in organic chemistry.
During this period, to broaden my experience, and, incidentally, to avoid
dropping out of school for nonpayment of term bills, I took a full-time
job, first in rhe Weather Bureau, and then in the Customs Laboratory,

After being dubbed Ph.D. I spent ten years in industry and hospitals
doing synthetic organic work oriented chiefly towards chemotherapy,
I then sought greener pastures by switching to polymer chemistry. Most
of my work in polymer chemistry has been intertwined with electrical
and electronic problems.

632 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

| find that maintenance of a house and the laborsaving devices avail-
able today combined with unsuccessful efforts to counterbalance the
influence of their contemporaries on my children does a more than
adequate job of soaking up all the “leisure time” with which I theo-
retically should be burdened. I am disturbed by the new tendencies in
education, such as assigning work designed to test the educational! level
of the parents rather than teaching a subject in school.

So far 1 have managed to stay solvent by avoiding most of the modern
versions of potlatch. I don’t intend to send either of my children to
Europe unless Debbie, who is studying at Juilliard, makes enough
progress to justify entering an international violin competition. Paula,
however, is conspiring to thwart my strivings toward fiscal sanity by
choosing a school, Colorado Woman’s College, which is fashionably far
away from home, and then planning to take her junior year in Austria.

I am puzzled by most people’s expectation of a multiplication of
everything to an infinite level on a finite earth. However, a resolution
of this contradiction, before it gets too pressing, is apparently at hand

in the form of fusion and fission devices. There is probably no shortage
of psychopaths in high places who are resolute enough to employ them,
if necessary, to “preserve our way of life.”

I have devoted more of my time (and money) than I care to think
about to the hobby of high fidelity. However, as time goes on, I find
less and less time to enjoy the fruits of my labor in this area.

Every winter I resolve to play more tennis the next summer. Un-
fortunately, between one thing and another I usually find that it is mid-
July before 1 get out on a court. Possibly, if I gave up my habit of
growing a few vegetables, it might improve matters slightly.

LAWRENCE MYRON LEVINSON

  

—_
-

&

iw

Se Sl is zx ‘)

HOME AppRESS: 75 Royce Rd., Newton, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Burns & Levinson, 77 Franklin St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Chattanooga High School, Chattanooga, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DicREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1939; LL.B., cum
laude, 1947. "

    
 

marriep: Zoe R. Webber, Oct. 12, 1947. cuitpnen: Laura Beth, June 7, 1950;
Robert Alan, Jan. 2, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm of Burns & Levinson.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 633

OFFICES HELD: Director, Suffolk Chapter of Polio Foundation, Newton Chamber of
mmerce, Rockland Trust Company, various business corporations.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American, Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associa-
tions.

After college I went to work in the road equipment and road paving
business in Chattanooga, Tennessee; had fun; saw a good future, but did
not care for contracting business. | applied for admission to several law
schools, settled on Yale, and at the last minute changed over to Harvard
Law School, a decision I have never regretted. At the end of one year at
the Law School, before World War II started, my Chattanooga draft
board cancelled a previous deferment and I went into the Army as a
private,

My Army career in a nutshell is private to major, Corps of Engineers,
largely with the rooth Infantry Division, 325th Combat Engineer Bat-
talion. I saw action in France and Germany which I have never regretted
as a personal experience but which I would hate to think of living through
again. In the field I was never wounded, never healthier, and was mildly
decorated for wandering around on reconnaissance.

In 1946, immediately after release from occupation duty in Germany,
I returned to the Law School and finished in September, 1947. My first
job was as law clerk to Judge Francis J. W. Ford in Boston. I reported
for work the very afternoon I finished my last law exam (in Evidence
under Professor Morgan); years later Judge Ford asked why I hadn’t
taken the rest of the day off. One of my first requests of the Judge was
for time to marry. He let me have a week in October, and Columbus
Day is a holiday in my household as a wedding anniversary. The ex-
perience with Judge Ford was rewarding and his warm and human ad-
vice has always helped me.

After my clerkship I went into private law practice in Boston, as an
associate in a medium-sized law firm, became a partner in about three
and a half years, and about eight years later set up a small firm with
Thomas D. Burns. Our firm is growing and we are trying to keep in
perspective the obligations of a lawyer to his practice, his family and the
community.

My wife is studying painting casually, and I think she has real talent.
My daughter has been at Winsor for several years and I see her acquiring
intellectual habits which are far superior to anything I ever had. My son
has just started at Fessenden and he reports that the sports program is
terrific. I have looked closely enough, however, to see that he is learning

a great deal also.

Looking back, the twenty-five years since graduation seem to have
slipped by very fast. I have thought of what I might have done differ-
ently, but the major course would undoubtedly have been the same.

634 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

LEON LEVINSON
wee tea.

4

   
 

alte As ea BWC i ent Libel

BORN: Nov. 8, 1919, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Hyman Saul Levinson, Mollie Sandler,

PREPARED AT: Publie Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1940;
mp. (Tufts Coll.), 1944.

MarRRiED: Muriel Stone, June 25, 1942, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: James William,
Aug. 19, 1946; Mark Leo, Oct. 4, 1948.

piep: Jan. 9, 1955, West Newton, Mass.

Since 1947 Levinson had practised internal medicine in Boston and
taught at Tufts Medical School. He was associated with Boston City
Hospital, Beth Israel, Faulkner and Massachusetts Women’s Hospitals.
During World War II he spent eighteen months in the Veterans Admin-
istration. He was survived by his wife and children.

ADRIAN FELIX LEVY, JR.

   

HOME Appress: 7118 Youpon Drive, Galveston, Texas.

orrice appress: Levy & Levy, 1009 U.S. National Bank Bldg., Galveston, Texas.

PREPARED AT: Ball High School, Galveston, Texas,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: 8.8, 1939; Lup. (Univ, of Texas), 1942.

marniep: Joan Therese Neustadt, Feb. 22, 1946 (divorced 1955); Yvonne LaGarde
Meyer, March 7, 1958, CHILDREN: Andrea, Aug. 23, 1947; Jan. J., Sept. 5,
1953; Alica Pearl, Feb. 16, 1961.

occuPATION: Attorney-at-Law.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 635

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, State Bar Association; chairman, Committee on
Admissions to Practice in Federal District Court; counsel for YWCA; Galves-
ton Area Advancement chairman, Boy Scouts of America; director, Galveston

County Bar Association; board member, vice-president and president, Congre-
gation B’nai B’rith of Galveston.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Galveston Country Club; Harvard Club
of Houston.

Subsequent to graduation from Harvard, attended the law school of
the University of Texas and received LL.B. degree in 1942 in absentia,
having entered the Army in February, 1942. Separated from the Army
as a captain, Air Corps, Combat Intelligence, December, 1945, having
served overseas for over two years with the Eighth Air Force. Have
been engaged in the practice of law in Galveston since returning from
army service.

On March 7, 1958, I married Yvonne LaGarde Meyer. My stepson,
Felix A. Meyer, Jr., is presently a freshman at the University of Texas.

MARION JOSEPH LEVY, JR. t¢

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 102 Russell Rd., Princeton, N.J.

VICTOR ALAN LEWINSON

 

HOME Appress: 1 Hunt Rd., Lexington, Mass, 02173.
OFFICE ADpREsS: A.D. Little, Inc., Acorn Park, Cambridge, Mass. 02140.

636 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

PREPARED AT: Ethical Culture School, New York, NLY.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREES: a.B., summa cum laude, 1939; A.M,
(Columbia Univ.), 1945; px.p. (ibid.) , 1950.

marrige: Gabrielle E. Bamberger, Dec. 14, 1957. cup: James H., May 25, 1960.

occupaTion: Professional staff, Operations-Research Section, A.D. Little, Inc.
(consultant firm).

 

HOME AbpRESS: 2709 Ross Rd., Chevy Chase 15, Md.

OFFICE apDRESS: Executive Office of the President, Bureau of the Budget, Wash-
ington, D.C, 20503.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m. (Univ.
of Chicago), 1940; a.m. (Brookings Institution), 1941.

MARRIED: Rose Helen Greenwald, June 15, 1941. cummpren: Deborah Ann, Nov. 2,
1943; Amy Rebecca, June 11, 1951; William David, Dee. 9, 1955.

occuPaTioN: Public administration; deputy chief, International Division, Execu-
tive Office of the President, Bureau of the Budget.

OFFICES HELD: Director and president, American Veterans Committee Club, Wash-

ington, 1948-51; trustee and president, Temple Emanuel, Kensington, Md.,
1952-57.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.; Harvard Alumni Association;
American Society for Public Administration; American Political Science
Association; Society for International Development.

Nostalgia caused by the approach of the 25th Reunion brought me to
review our Class Album, including the notes on myself, and I reflected
on my unrecorded as well as recorded intentions at age twenty-one. It
may not be due to dogged persistence but I have carried out my principal
intentions — I have been happily married, moved on to satisfying success
in the field of public administration, and have remained staunchly liberal
in my political and social outlook. One unlooked-for role has been my
activity in the Jewish community —where is the agnosticism of the
1930's?

"The war interrupted my studies at the University of Chicago and
Brookings Institution. I never completed the thesis I had begun for my
Ph.D., but have recently started to flirt with the possibility of studying
again. This may be a forty-five-year-old nervous twitch or just the old
college spirit fanned to flame by all these 25th Reunion communications.

Before becoming an Intelligence Agent in the war and serving in

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 637

Germany, I served a stint in the old Office of Price Administration. Then
for ten years I moved about in the Budget Bureau, increasingly fascinated
with the processes of government. In 1957, restless, we packed up for
Geneva, Switzerland, and an international organization, the Intergovern-
mental Committee for European Migration. A tour of two years was
not long enough and we hope to return someday. I have also taken short
trips to other countries— Japan, Korea, Taiwan, Hong Kong, India,
Laos, Iran, Thailand, Italy, Australia and back and forth in Europe.
“Join the International Division and see the world!” is my recruiting
slogan to attract Littauer graduates.

No unusual hobbies! Reading, gardening, music, a did-it-myself recre-
ation room, etc. I am pleased to say 1 play a much better game of tennis
than I did twenty-five years ago, maybe because I try harder now. My
weight is only ten pounds more, but it has certainly slipped downward.

I was a New Dealer and a vocal member of A.S.U. in the 1930’s, and
time has not made me less liberal in my commitment, although | confess
I am somewhat less vocal. Also, like Senator Douglas, I believe that one
can be a liberal without being a wastrel. I hope to help in solving our
own local problems of Negro/white relations — which I think are the
major problem in the U.S, today,

RICHARD WARRINGTON BALDWIN LEWI

 

   

     

 

HOME ApprREsS: Litchfield Turnpike, Bethany, Conn,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 232 Hall of Graduate Studies, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m. (Univ.
of Chicago), 1941; pH.p. (ibid.), 1953; Litt.p. (Wesleyan Univ.), 1961.
marRRIED: Nancy Lindau, June 28, 1950, cHttp: Nathaniel Lindau, May 10, 1962.
OCCUPATION: Teacher and writer; professor of English and American Studies,

Yale University; director of Graduate Studies in American Studies Program.
OFFICES HELD: Member of Literature Faculty, Bennington College, 1918-50; dean,
Salzburg Seminar, 1950-51; visiting lecturer in English, Smith College,
1951-52; Hodder Fellow in Humanities, 1952-53, resident fellow in creative
writing, 1953-54, Princeton University; Kenyon Review Fellow in Criticism,
1954-55; associate professor and professor of English, Rutgers (Newark
College), 1954-59; Fulbright lecturer in) American literature, Munich,
1957-58; visiting lecturer in English, 1959-60, professor, since 1960, Yale
University; fellowship from American Council of Learned Societies, 1962-63;

638 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

recipient, award from the National Institute of Arts and Letters (accompanied
by a citation about achievement in literature), 1958.

MEMBER OF: Modern Languages Association; Book and Snake (senior society),
Yale; Pundits, Yale.

PUBLICATIONS: [he American Adam, 1955; The Picaresque Saint, 1959. Volumes
edited with introductions: Herman Melville: A Reader, 1962; The Presence
of Walt Fhitman, 1962; Edith Wharton’s The House of Mirth, 1963:
Malraux: A Collection of Critical Essays, 1964; editor with introduction of
the Whitman Section in Major Writers of America, 1962; author of essays
on 19th and 20th century European, English and American Literature in
Contemporary Literary Scholarship, The Young Rebel in American Literature
and other volumes, and in a variety of periodicals.

The war, of course, broke out promptly at the end of the summer
following graduation, though we were given two years’ uneasy grace
to get some small foothold in the world—mine being an A.M. in
Renaissance studies at Chicago, and four months as teaching fellow back
at Harvard. I enlisted in January, 1942, and it was going on five years
before I returned to civilian life: during which years I had pursued
intelligence missions in the Middle East and the Western Desert, and
in Italy and Austria. As wars go, mine was not a bad one; I even man-
aged to get trapped behind the lines in Italy and stumbled back through
some Abruzzese vineyards in time for Christmas 1943; when the war
was all over I had learned a little and had much for which to be
thankful.

During those first roistering and plan-making New York days after
I was discharged, it seemed to me that our generation was clearly mov-
ing toward the centers of authority in our time and country. This
feeling may have had its apocalyptic ending in Dallas this past year; we
seem to be going back to older ways and older men; but it was a real
feeling in 1946. Our generation had, after all, been more than most
invaded by history and introduced to geography; and perhaps more than
most, we had and have been made alert to the complex fate — and the
attendant responsibilities — of being an American in the ferocious and

hopeful modern epoch.

That great teacher, F. O. Matthiessen, once wrote that he had gone
to Europe to find out what it meant to be an American. In retrospect,
even my European war years took on something of that purpose; and
my first peace-time act was to switch from Renaissance to American
studies. But Matty’s formula rightly insists that the res Americana can
only be understood and experienced by constantly meditating its re-
lation to other cultures. The present younger generation, ] am sure
wisely, seems to seek such understanding by comparing American with
Slavic and Oriental cultures, mine was the older-fashioned way of con-
fronting America with Europe. This is what I have tried to do in|
writing and teaching, and in a series of visits abroad; and what really
engaged my intellectual loyalty, I suppose, is western literature itself —
as embodying a continuing definition of man, a definition so variously
and ambiguously announced in the differing national accounts of men.

I’m tempted to go a step further, though in so short a space I can
only sound portentously vague, A determining element in western
literature has, of course, been the Christian religion, But if Christianity
gave rise to many of the supreme works of literature, its force is quite

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 639

obviously declining; and it may just be that literature is about to make
some return on its enormous debt. The Christian sense of human life,
that is, may be re-animated by the creative imagination (with its own
fresh idioms and perspectives), even as the specific Christian institutions,
formal doctrines and vocabulary wither away. I am perfectly aware
how extravagant, romantic and Whitmanian — in short, how American
— such a prediction may be, but my allegiance to literature in part rests
upon it, Ir is a matter of ungrounded and unquenchable hope. Auden
has warned us that “poetry” (or let us say, literature and art) “Makes
nothing happen.” But in that same elegy for Yeats, Auden goes on to
say that poetry makes everything happen, everything that counts. It
can, he says, “Make a vinevard of the curse”, it can “sing of human
unsuccess/In a rapture of distress”; and “in the prison of his days,” it
can “teach the free man how to praise.” This is or would be, surely, a
genuine religious accomplishment. In this darkly distressing period, with
the sense of moral failure, almost of a curse of some kind, upon us, as
we lie imprisoned in our own astonishing combination of violence and
apathy, I cannot for the life of me think of anything more important —
for men who want to be free and who need to praise.

* WELLS LEWIS

r SE OE SEE SERN ES TO Ral No eT
5 woe 4

to

i oe °

: # 4 # *

c: “a %

Fo oe 3

. J 4
Pp ; .

  
    

BORN: July 26, 1917, New York, N.Y. Parents: Sinclair Lewis, Grace Hegger.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1936-1939. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939.
pieD: Killed in action, October 29, 1944, in France.

After graduation Lewis worked as news editor of a Grenville, Missis-
sippi, newspaper and as reporter for a New Brunswick, New Jersey,
newspaper. In August, 1940, he enlisted in the Seventh Regiment of
the New York National Guard. He served in the North African and
Italian campaigns before going to France. He received the Silver Star
for bravery under fire and the Bronze Star and was posthumously
awarded the Croix de Guerre with Palm and the Purple Heart. As
commander of Headquarters Batterv in Africa he wrote several articles
and stories for various magazines, While in his senior year at college

he published a novel, They Still Say No, which was later translated into
French, He was survived by his parents.

64.0 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

MARTIN LICHTERMAN

    

Boe Seo ee

   
 
 

LODGE oA PUA TS

‘f Fe t
.
~# ‘

ome i

-

: i

HOME appress: 5 Constitution Rd., Lexington, Mass.

OFFICE appress: New England Board of Higher Education, 31 Church St., Win-
chester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1939; a.M., 1947; PH.D.
(Columbia Univ.) , 1952.

marrieD: Charlotte Rottenberg, Oct. 7, 1945. cumpreN: Joshua David, Dec. 6,
1947; Andrew Mare, Jan. 1, 1953.

occupation: Executive secretary, New England Board of Higher Education.
NEBHE is an agency established and supported by legislative action of the
six New England states to serve as a planning, coordinating and informational
organization in higher education.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Massachusetts Committee on Children and Youth,
since 1963; chairman, New England Council for the Advancement of School
Administration, 1962-63; member, MCCY Executive Board, since 1961, Massa-
chusetts Board of Collegiate Authority, since 1961, Massachusetts Civil War
Centennial Commission, 1961-63, Lexington Democratic Town Committee,
since 1960; moderator, Citizens’ Committee for the Lexington Public Schools,
1957-58; president, Maria Hastings School P.T.A., 1956-57.

MEMBER: American Association of University Professors; American Historical
Association; American Political Science Association; Mississippi Walley His-
torical Association; Civil Liberties Union of Massachusetts; Lexington Demo-
cratic Club; National Association for the Advancement of Colored People.

pupLications: “To the Yalu and Back” in American Civil-Military Decistons,
Harold Stein, ed., University of Alabama Press, 1963; “Limited War: Korea,”
in Richard D. Challener and Gordon B. Turner, eds., National Security in the
Nuclear Age, Praeger, N.Y., 1960; co-author, Political Community in the
North Atlantic Area, Princeton University Press, 1957; “Civil War and Re-
construction,” in Harper's Encyclopedia of American History, Richard B.
Morris and Henry Steele Commager, eds., Harper’s, N.Y., 1953.

I started writing this autobiographical note on Friday, November 22,
but 1 was interrupted by the horrible news from Dallas and now, almost
three weeks later, | still have little stomach for writing. What can one
say about his outlook on the world against the background of this
tragedy? I have seen some of my optimism slowly erode under the
impact of lesser events but much of my essential faith in progress re-
mained. Today I am not so sure.

Perhaps what troubles me most is the fact that we may have lost for
a long time to come the youthful, exciting enthusiasm, coupled with
hard-headed realism, which characterized John F, Kennedy’s presidency,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 641

as well as the proud quest for excellence that gave special meaning to
the labors of those of us who are in public life and in academia. Para-
doxically, it made our jobs easier and harder at the same time. The
possibility that we may lose this feeling underscores the depth and
breadth of our national tragedy.

Since our Twentieth Report, | have completed the transition from
one career to another. Although I am still in the field of education, I
am no longer teaching (except for occasional lectures). Five years ago
I was on leave from M.LT. to serve as research director in the Office
of the Governor of the Commonwealth. To my surprise, my first taste
of administration — especially the development of new educational pro-
grams — merely sharpened my appetite for more of the same, so I never
returned to teaching at M.LT. Instead, at the close of the administration,
I took the opportunity to exchange one governor and one legislature for
six governors and six legislatures as my bosses, and I’ve had a challenging
and exciting time of it ever since.

Regional planning in higher education has been a highly satisfying
occupation. I’ve had to learn about all sorts of things about which my
ignorance had been vast, ranging from agriculture to medicine, and I’ve
become a first-rate superficialist! During the past few years I’ve led
a busier and less routinized life than ever before. I’ve traveled more
than at any time of my life (military service excepted) and I’ve had no
time to look back nostalgically at the classroom and library I deserted.
I feel also that I am making a more useful contribution to education
than | did as a member of a college faculty.

In my spare time I take great satisfaction in the fact that | am probably
the only member of our class who skis better and plays a better game
of tennis than he did twenty-five years ago. The catch is, of course,
that I did neither in college. I’ve watched my two sons grow and taken
even greater pride in the fact that they will out-ski me this year and
are also undoubtedly smarter than I. Participating in the planning for
our Reunion has been a most enjoyable way to make a small repayment
for all one owes the College and a pleasant opportunity to make new
acquaintances and renew old ones with so many classmates.

EDWIN LICHTIG, JR.

642 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HOME appreESS: 30 Riverside Drive, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mill Street & Gardner Avenue, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Edna Jane Freider, Sept. 29, 1940. cuitpREN: Karen, Oct. 3, 1945;
Susan Avis, Dec, 25, 1951; Ellen Ann and Edwin, 3d (twins), May 10, 1956.

occupaTiON: Cigar manufacturing; assistant vice-president and assistant secretary
responsibility fer production, purchasing of raw material and direct supplies,
personnel and general administration.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Rotary Club, Congregation B’nai B’rith; president, Har.
vard Club, Valley Tennis & Swim Club; president, Wyoming Valley Tennis
Association; director, Wyoming Valley Squash Racquets Club, Wyoming
Valley Heart Association, University Club; area chairman, Program for
Harvard College.

Retracing a path of twenty-five years requires a pretty sharp focus of
names, places and events that I am certain I cannot fully recall, nor for
that matter would most of the details be sufficiently exciting to list.

About a year after college [ married and at once set sail for the
Philippine Islands—a twenty-two-day ocean-going trip in those days
that was a real experience for a hitherto landlubber. Tobacco and cigars
were the cause of all this, as I began a career in an industry to which I
have devoted my business life since. The charm, the customs, the
people of the islands left a considerable mark on my impressionable
youth and of course a lasting memory.

During this period of a year I traveled extensively in the island of
Luzon— at one point being stricken with a form of dengue fever that
left me limp after two weeks of serious illness. The place was memor-
able —a native barrio in the province of Isabella completely apart from
civilization; no cars, often impassable roads, primitive sanitary facilities,
etc. Eventually I recovered and over the years padded adequately what
was at the time a pretty skeletal frame.

Our life in the Orient was interrupted by the war. We returned to
the States in late November, 1941, just two weeks prior to Pearl Harbor,
not because we wanted to but because of a premonition rather than any
keen analytic insight. Our return was so fresh that lacking any real au-
thorities to call upon, the local Cincinnati radio station interviewed us
early in December as Far Eastern experts.

Shortly afterward we settled in Dayton and Xenia, Ohio, trying to
re-establish a business just destroyed. Labor was hard to come by and
within a year we moved again seeking a better horizon from which to
start over. Most people are not aware that our present home, Wilkes-
Barre, is the center of one of the largest cigar-producing areas in the
country. Things were eventually righted, and we have been able to con-
tinue a successful if not distinguished effort in this business.

The Philippine illness prevented military service, though I have cer-
tainly been more than active ever since. My wife, Edna, whom I met
at Wheaton in 1936 helped us to establish a fruitful way of living here.
Our first daughter, Karen, was born in 1945 and is presently a freshman
at Briarcliff. Our second daughter, Susan, was born Christmas Day six

ears later and is now in seventh grade and the smallest girl in her
class. In 1955 we had a third daughter, Fllen, and ten minutes later, un-
announced, a son, Edwin, 3d. It was an epoch-making moment.

Perhaps the most rewarding activities in which anyone engages are

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 643

those that create for or contribute to the welfare of others. Through a
series of totally unexpected events, I attended two successive annual
meetings of the Associated Harvard Clubs and was just ready to start a
club in Northeastern Pennsylvania at the time the Program for Harvard
College drive was being initiated. Asa result I was named area chairman
and elected first president of the club. It was a particularly satisfying ex-
perience, because we were one of the first to get started and the third
place in the country to exceed our quota — eventually reaching a level
of about 125 per cent. Meeting all the Harvard alumni and getting to
know them as well as the college administrative people both in Cambridge
and here was very rewarding. At Commencement in 1959 1 was honored
by being asked to serve as a Class Marshal. We have as a consequence
put this relatively insignificant hard coal section on the Harvard map and
have been extremely successful over the years with our Schools Commit-
tee. For the past two summers, I have enjoyed the excellence of short
Harvard Business School management seminars sponsored by the tobacco
industry,

In 1961 a few of my friends and I decided to establish a swim and
tennis club in a back mountain area a few minutes from the city. We
eventually succeeded in raising close to a hundred thousand dollars and
getting together a fine cross section of people from the community as
its members. Seeing a thing of beauty begin and nurturing it from its in-
ception has been a source of real satisfaction to me and equally, I believe,
to the others who joined in the effort. The past summer we were fortu-
nate in engaging the services of the National Intercollegiate Squash
Champion and number two man on the Harvard Tennis Team as our
instructor. Next summer he hopes to return with a Harvard tennis assist-
ant and one of the leading members of the Swim Team. .

My interest in tennis and squash has been considerable, and this to-
gether with a closeness to numerous Harvard affairs has produced a
multi-faceted background of extracurricular activity. Living in a reason-
ably sized yet small enough metropolitan area has generated oppor-
tunities for community participation that have been satisfying in many
ways.

Our family has grown and prospered reasonably well over the years.
As for everyone, I am sure, it has been a revelation to watch the growth
and development of our children. I am not always sure we have given
all we could or guided them as we should, so it will be all the more in-

teresting to compare notes and see the results in Cambridge come next
June.

bs HARVARD CLASS OF 1939 _

WILLIAM vay VLECK LIDGERWOOD +

i
*
e

"ELSE SERRE SE RENE Le ASIEN oN

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 1111 Park Ave., New York, N.Y. 10028.

DAVID WADDELL LILLIE

      

\ _

HOME ADRESS: 2464 Hilltop Rd., Schenectady, N.Y. d
OFFICE appREss: General Electric Research Laboratory, P.O. Box 1088, Schenectady,
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

MarRiED: Grace F. Smith, Aug. 15, 1943 (died Aug. 19, 1961). CHILDREN: Charles

Plympton, Feb. 12, 1946; David Rattray, Aug. 21, 1949.

occupation: Manager, Materials Application and Evaluation Section, Metallurgy
and Ceramics Research Department, General Electric Research Laboratory;
management of applied research activities.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, 1958-59, chairman, 1959-60, Northeastern N.Y.
Chapter, American Nuclear Society; chairman, AIME Nuclear Metallurgy
Committee, 1954, AIME Shaping and Forming Committee, 1963; member,
board of directors, Schenectady Chapter, Planned Parenthood Association,
1962-63, American Cancer Society, 1963; chairman, Niskayuna Democratic
Club, 1960-61; president, Niskayuna Little League, 1962.

membeR OF: American Nuclear Society; American Institute of Mining, Metallurgi-
cal and Petroleum Engineers (AIME); American Society of Metals; Ameri-
can Association for the Advancement of Science (AAAS); NAACP; Planned

Parenthood Federation; Parents Without Partners; Niskayuna Democratic
Club.

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 645

PUBLICATIONS: “Nuclear Materials,” correspondence course text for American
Society for Metals; ten technical papers or articles; two patents.

After graduating in chemistry I found the demand for even Harvard
chemists less than brisk and settled in the fall of ’39 for a job with Cru-
cible Steel Company in Harrison, New Jersey. Here I converted to a
metallurgist and remained producing gun barrels, armor piercing pro-
jectiles and other similar hardware during the entire war. During this
time I lived in New York City where I met and married Grace Smith
(Wellesley ’42) of Burlington, Vermont. After the war we moved to
Boston where I did research on metals for nuclear energy atc MIT for
two years.

Went to Washington in 1948 to work in the Division of Research of
the Atomic Energy Commission where I became chief of the Metal-
lurgy and Materials Branch in 1951. Government low pay and a surfeit
of administration led to a return to research in 1954, this time at the
General Electric Research Laboratory in Schenectady, New York.
Lousy scientists are sometimes more useful as administrators, however,
so I’m now managing one of the six Sections of the Metallurgy Depart-
ment at the Laboratory.

Grace died in 1961 after six years of battle with cancer of the lymph.
I learned a lot about courage from her in that period. As a bachelor
father I’m grateful for two boys and no girls. Both boys are now at
Milton Academy, except for summers when they take care of the,
“old man.”

I took up skiing two winters ago and have a bad case of it. I actually
look forward to winter now. My other religion is Unitarianism, if you
can call that a religion — but it all makes more sense than orthodoxy to
me. I think Jack Kennedy is doing a wonderful job. I’m in favor of the

NAACP and I’m convinced we should go to the moon, with or without
the Russians. .

All I need for the next twenty-five years is a rich, beautiful, cultivated,
cultured, witty, intelligent and rich girl who is willing. Any suggestions?

FARL PERRY LIONS

 

HOME ADpREsSs: 24, rue Francois Stroobant, Brussels, Belgium,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ideal-Standard, S.A., 207 Boulevard du Souverain, Brussels, Bel-
gium.

646 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Southern California, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEcREES: s.B., 1939; a.m., 1939.

marnieD: Jean Carolyn Burckhardt, May 29, 1944.

occupation: Managing director, European subsidiary of U.S. heavy industrial
equipment and engineering firm.

MEMBER of Cercle Royal Gaulois, Royal Automobile Club, American Club, all

russels,
puBLICATIONS: One patent in field of air pollution control.

Upon graduation I lived in Europe and Asia as a special field repre-
sentative of the Bahrein Petroleum Company. After about two years
of this, ] returned to the United States and, shortly after my return, ac-
cepted a position as assistant personnel manager of the Corbin Screw
Division of American Hardware Corporation in New Britain, Con-
necticut.

In October of 1942, 1 entered military service as a bachelor private
and somehow, after a (in retrospect) not uninteresting four-year
hitch, emerged a married first heutenant in the Air Corps.

My adjustment to civilian life took place in the sympathetic atmos-
phere of Fremont, Michigan, where I spent three and a half years with
the Gerber Products Company, mostly in the sales department. The
lure of heavy industry drew me to Ford Motor Company in 1949. The
next eight years were rather profitable, primarily as an educational ex-
perience, both in the commercial sense of the word and, more impor-
tantly, in a philosophical sense. I came out of this eight-year experience
with a better sense of values, rather empirically derived.

I progressed from the position of market and financial analyst with
Ford International to director of special products with Chrysler Inter-
national. In 1961 1 accepted the position of managing director of Ameri-
can Standard’s European Industrial Products group.

I have resided in Europe continuously since 1957, first in Switzerland
and now in Belgium.

By most criteria, I think my life and my marriage have been both
fortunate and happy. I have had the opportunity to travel and work in
most of the countries of Europe, Asia, North America and South
America, and my wife has not balked at tagging along occasionally.

My job doesn’t permit me to do nearly as much reading and studying
as 1 would like, but I am able to indulge my continuing curiosity con-
cerning history, people and places. Although our vacations are usually

too short, they are anything but dull, because of the variety that Europe
offers,

After twenty-five years, I am still amazed at and grateful for some of
the practical aspects of what had appeared to me to be an education of
primarily cultural value; this despite the fact that I had trained as a
sociologist and am engaged in international commerce.

I have no hobbies, no complaints, about the same liberal political and
social views, but somewhat more optimism with regard to the future of
the world, alchough I don’t envy future generations, which may find
themselves deprived of some of the adventure of thought by cyber-
netics.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RALPH EMERSON LIVINGSTON

  
  

 

HOME AppRESs: Wilson Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 236 Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass. 02115.
PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: S.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Lucia Buchanan, Sept. 3, 1949. cHiLpREN: Kipp Buchanan, Oct. 19,
1952; Marian B., Dec. 14, 1954.

occupation: Manufacturers’ agent, self-employed.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; other social clubs.

In retrospect, I don’t have much to add to data I supplied for previous
year books. For our Twentieth Reunion book I said I thought there

would be no major war. I'll go on record again in stating there won't be
one during the next twenty years.

LAURENCE SAMUELS LOCKE

  

HOME AppreEss: 39 Spruce Hill Rd., Weston 93. Mass.

OFFICE abpRESS: Horovitz, Petkun, Rothschild, Locke & Kistin, 6 Heacon St.
Boston 8, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Woodmere Academy, Woodmere, N.Y,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. prcReES: a.n., magaa cum fande. 1939; Lio, Pl.

MARRIED: Eleanor Grose, Dec. 21, 1939. cHtnonnn: Nancy, Feb. 22. 1984; James
W., Dee. 5, 1946; David L., May 9, 1949,

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner in law firm.

648 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

OFFICES HELD; Professional: Secretary-treasurer, NACCA (National Association of
Claimants Counsel of America), 1947-52; editorial board, NACCA Law Jour-
nal, 1947-63; home office editor, NACCA Law Journal, 1948-55; member,
executive board, Massachusetts NACCA, 1956-63; Committee on Workmen’s
Compensation Law, Boston Bar Association, 1960-63; legal adviser, Workmen’s
Compensation Committee, Massachusetts State Council, AFL-CIO, 1958-63;
Commission on Reorganization of Industrial Accident Board, to Massachusetts
Governor Volpe, 1960-61. Educational: President, Wyoma Council, P.T.A.
(Lynn, Mass.), 1950-52; executive board, Weston (Mass.) P.T.A., 1959-62;
Weston Educational Committee, 1959-63; chairman, Section on Humanities,
Weston High School Survey, 1958; chairman, Special Committee on “Accordion
Plan,” Weston School Committee, 1959; chairman and reporter, Social Studies
Committee, Weston Education Committee, 1960-63. Community: Commission
on Law and Social Action, American Jewish Congress, New England Region,
1948-63; chairman, 1948-54, administrative board, 1947-63, American Jewish
Congress, New England Region; secretary, 1960-63, executive board, 1952-56,
Jewish Community Center of Greater Lynn.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Claimants Counsel of America (NACCA) ;
Boston Bar Association; American Jewish Congress; American Civil Liberties
Union; NAACP; Weston (Mass.) P.T.A.; Contemporary Music Society;
American Recorder Society; Associates Council, De Cordova Museum; Friendly
Society, Weston,

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous law notes and commentary, NACCA Law Journal,
1948-55; lectures on Workmen’s Compensation in various proceedings of law
seminars and conventions, 1952-63.

These have been busy and rewarding years. Soon after entering Har-
vard Law School, I married Eleanor Grose (Smith ’38) and we now
have three children; Nancy (Smith 64) born after I passed the bar,
James (Weston High ’6q) born after I returned from three years with
the Air Force, and David (Weston High ’67) born after I was well
started in my professional career as a specialist in workmen’s compensa-
tion law. We live in Weston, a pleasant suburb of Boston, in a con-
temporary house, and enjoy the usual round of cocktail parties, tennis
and concerts that help professional couples in their forties hold back the
calendar.

My legal practice has been a lucky choice for me, A rich variety of
personalities, factual situations and medico-legal problems preserves its
interest; the trial of cases satisfies my sense of drama; and the representa-
tion of injured employees enables me to use my training for the benefit
of people I am glad to help. 1 am legal adviser in workmen’s compensa-
tion to the Massachusetts AFL-CIO. I have been an editor of a law
journal in our specialty. I appear before the Legislature on pending
amendments, have served on a special commission appointed by Gover-
nor Volpe to improve the administration of workmen’s compensation,
and am often called on to lecture and write on this subject.

Outside the office and my home, I have kept up my interest in public
affairs and social justice. For many years, I have been associated with
the Commission on Law and Social Action of the American Jewish
Congress (CLSA), for six years as Its chairman. This group has been
closely identified with efforts to eliminate racial and religious discrimina-
tion in Massachusetts. In Lynn (where we lived from 1948 to 1956) and
in Weston, I have been concerned with efforts to improve the quality of
public schools. I have carried my share of the load in P.T.A. and the
like, but my main opportunity to serve this interest has been in the area
of curriculum modernization and reform in Weston, As a member of

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 649

the Weston Education Committee, during 1958-59 I helped prepare a re-
port (“The Accordion Plan”) which synthesized a number of proposals
on classroom organization, deployment of teachers, utilization of tech-
nology and the like. The “Plan” has been introduced in Weston Public
Schools with the aid of a $100,000 grant from the Ford Foundation.
More recently (1960-63), the social studies area has received our atten-
tion, and I penned, on behalf of our committee, a longish report which
we hope will provoke some needed reform in this area of the school
program.

My wife, from the time our youngest child entered school, has pur-
sued an avid interest in music. She is a gifted amateur pianist and has
over twenty pupils. I share her enthusiasm for music, but only as a
listener and concert-goer. My other hobbies include photography,
foreign films, camping and hiking in the New England mountains, travel,
tennis and squash — but since a bad fall in 1961, no longer skiing.

As indicated, I have had my bumps and aches. But I rejoice that I

was given enthusiasm and energy for work and play, and a good head
start in both at Harvard in the Class of ’39.

ROGER WILLIAM LOEWI

MOOD ILLES LO EE

   

HOME appress: 440 E. 20th St., New York, N.Y. 10009.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Conmar Products Corp., 140 Thomas St., Newark, NJ. 07101.

PREPARED AT: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Ruth Chill, March 25, 1945. cHipREN: Andrew William, May 15, 1950;
David Matthew, March 1, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Purchasing agent, Conmar Products Corporation, manufacturers of
zippers, dolls’ eyes.

MEMBER OF: North Jersey Purchasing Agents Assoviation; National Associstion
of Purchasing Agents.

650 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

 

HOME ADDRESS: 50 Jerusalem Rd., Cohasset, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: International Hotel Supply Corp., 172 High St., Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Portsmouth Priory School, Portsmouth, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935~1939. pEcREES: a.B., 1939; M.B.a., 1947.

maRRIED: Paula FE. Peterson, Oct. 1, 1949. cHILpREN: Malcolm Theodore, April
29, 1955; Martha Anne, March 17, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Finance, International Hotel Supply Corporation, a subsidiary of
Sheraton Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, member, Building Fund Committee, Portsmouth Priory
Schoo] Alumni Association; member, Academy Board, Massachusetts Military
Academy.

Upon leaving Harvard I joined a family-owned brewing concern
known as the Boston Beer Company.

Late in 1940, I left this firm to enlist as a private in the Army. Five
years later as a major, having served as an Infantry officer with overseas
duty in the European Theatre, I returned to my home and re-entered
Harvard University. After completing an accelerated course I received
the degree of M.B.A. from the Harvard Graduate School of Business
Administration and rejoined the Boston Beer Company. Because of the
ever increasing demands of the labor unions, we decided to sell in 1958.

Since 1959, I have been associated with the International Hotel Supply
Corporation, a subsidiary of the Sheraton Corporation of America.

Directly after World War II, because of my interest in certain aspects
of the military, | joined the National Guard, an Army Civilian Com-
ponent. As of this date, [ am a colonel assigned as Chief of Staff, 26th
“Yankee” Infantry Division.

My free time is divided mainly between the pleasures and problems
of a lively family and such hobbies as are concerned with being a week-
end gardener on a few acres near the seashore in suburban Cohasset,
Massachusetts.

With a son, eight, a daughter, five, and a wife (Polly) whose energy
and interest are boundless, J am looking forward to the next twenty-five
years— may they be no Jess happy, and pass more slowly.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 651

IRVING MEYER LONDON

     

HOME ADDRESS: 316 W. 245th St., New York, N.Y. 10071.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Albert Einstein College of Medicine, New York, N.Y. 10061.
PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1939; B.3.ep. (He-
brew Teachers Coll.) , 1938; m.p. (Harvard Univ.), 1943.

MARRIED: Huguette Piedzicki, Feb. 27, 1955. CHILDREN: Robert L. J., Aug. 1, 1957;
David T. D., Oct. 26, 1959,

OCCUPATION: Professor and chairman, Department of Medicine, Albert Einstein
College of Medicine; director of Medical Services, Bronx Municipal Hospital

enter.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, associate professor of medicine, Columbia University.
1947-55; member, Medical Fellowship Board, National Academy of Sciences,
National Research Council, 1955-63, Subcommittee on Blood and Related
Problems, National Academy of Sciences, National Research Council. since
1955, Hematology Study Section, U.S. Public Health Service. 1955-59, Sub-
committee on Intravenous Alimentation, Department of the Army, 1955-60,
Medical Advisory Board, Hebrew University and Hadassah. since 1955, Re-
search Council, Public Health Research Institute of the City of New York.
1958-63, Executive Committee, Health Research Council, City of New York.
1958-63, Metabolism Study Section, U.S. Public Health Service, 1960-63,
Board of Scientific Consultants, Sloan-Kettering Institute for Cancer Research,
since 1960, Medical Advisory Committee, Unitarian Universalist Service
Committee, since 1963; chairman, Metabolism Study Section, U.S. Public
Health Service, 1961-63; president, American Society for Clinical Investiga-
tion, since 1963; fellow, American Academy of Arts & Sciences, since 1963,

MEMBER OF: American Society of Biological Chemists; American Socicty for
Clinical Investigation; Association of American Physicians; Harvey Society;
Interurban Clinical Club; International Society of Hematology; Practitioners
Society; Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine; Phi Beta Kappa;
Alpha Omega Alpha.

PUBLICATIONS: Harvey Lecture on “Metabolism of the Erythrocyte,” 1961, and
numerous scientific publications on the metabolism of hemoglobin and bile
pigments and on energy metabolism of red blood cells,

After graduation, a Sheldon Travelling Fellowship atforded me the
opportunity of spending a year abroad. In company with Larry Ebb,
Dick Finn, Dick Sullivan and Jim Tobin I traveled through France and
into Switzerland with only occasional moments of concern about the
threats of war. When the war did break out, we were faced with the
prospect of severe restrictions on our travel and we decided therefore
to return home.

The opportunity of entering Harvard Medical School was offered

652 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

to me again, and [ accepted it with some feeling of uncertainty. Studying
medicine was initially a very different intellectual and emotional experi-
ence from that of studying political theory at Harvard College. At the
end of my second year in Medical School, I was able to utilize the
funds of the Sheldon Travelling Fellowship to study public health con-
ditions in the areas of military cantonments in the United States. After
extensive study of the variegated medical and social problems attendant
upon the rapid mobilization of American military forces, I returned to
Medical School with much greater interest and purpose. The remain-
ing years in Medical School were exciting and rewarding and were
followed by internship ac Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center in
New York.

My service in the Medical Corps of the Army was devoted largely
to research on anti-malarial drugs, and I participated in the successful
search for newer agents, among them chloroquine and derivates of
plasmochin. Shortly before leaving the service, | was asked to serve as
the Army medical officer on the staff of Admiral Blandy, who was in
charge of Operations Crossroads, the testing of atomic bombs at Bikini
in 1946. This experience included research on the effects of blast and
radiation on animals and an incidental battle against an outbreak of
bacillary dysentery which threatened the expedition.

On returning to Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center, I resumed
residency training in internal medicine and began investigative work in
biochemistry. The years 1946 to 1955 were happily devoted to teaching
clinical medicine and doing research on the metabolism of hemoglobin,
of plasma proteins and of cholesterol in man and experimental animals.
1 was fortunate in being awarded the Welch Fellowship of the National
Research Council and the Theobald Smith Prize in Medical Sciences
of the American Association for the Advancement of Science.

The year 1955 was especially joyous. In February of that year I
married a lovely French girl, Huguette Piedzicki, We have two sons,
Robert, aged six, and David, aged four, who bring us much happiness.

That same year the unusual opportunity of helping to start a new
medical school was afforded me. I accepted the invitation to serve as
the chairman of the Department of Medicine at the newly founded
Albert Einstein College of Medicine and as director of the Medical
Services of the new Bronx Municipal Hospital Center. The past eight
years have seen the very gratifying and remarkable growth of this
medical center into one of the outstanding medical institutions of the
United States.

My investigative work has been concerned principally with the me-
tabolism of red blood cells and with the biologic synthesis of hemo-
globin. During 1962-63 I spent a sabbatical year at the Institut Pasteur
in Paris, working on regulatory mechanisms in the synthesis of proteins.
This sabbatical year was delightful for its scientific rewards and for its
cultural and aesthetic pleasures.

My family and work keep me merrily busy, but I have found time
for some additional interests. These include membership on committees
of the National Research Council and the National Institutes of Health
and of the advisory boards of the Hebrew University-Hadassah Medical
School and of the Unitarian Universalist Service Committee. This year

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 653

I was elected president of the American Society for Clinical Investiga-
tion and a fellow of the American Academy of Arts and Sciences.

Our young sons keep us quite active, particularly during our summers
on Cape Cod. Tennis is still my favorite sport, but I find skiing and
skating with our boys increasingly appealing.

An independent politically, I have voted for the Democratic candi-
dates in every Presidential election since 1940. In general, I believe that
we've been particularly fortunate with FDR and JFK as Harvard rep-
resentatives in the presidency. My direct participation in political ac-
tivity is rather limited, but I do serve on the Physicians Committee for
Health Care for the Aged through Social Security and I support the
activities of Physicians for Social Responsibility. I’m moderately opti-
mistic that the good sense of the peoples of the world will prevail and
that we shall avoid major wars. I continue to look forward with hope
to the further development of international governing bodies which will
be effective in keeping the world at peace and in fostering political
freedom and economic and social progress.

JACK LONG

   

HOME ADDRESS: 413 E. 82d St., New York 28, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Standard Oil Co. (N.J.), 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York 20, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: New Trier Township High School, Winnetka, II}.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: S.B., 1939.

OCCUPATION: Writer in public relations department, Standard Oil Company (New
Jersey).

654 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

SCOTT LONG

 

HOME appress: 4501 Dupont Ave., S., Minneapolis, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Minneapolis Star & Tribune, Minneapolis, Minn.

PREPARED AT: Warren G. Harding High School, Warren, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MaRRIED: Betty Ann Mitchell, Sept. 9, 1939. cHILDREN: Mitchell (daughter),
April 18, 1942; Scott, 3d, Jan. 11, 1944; Barbaralynn, Jan. 6, 1956.

occuPATION: Political cartoonist for Minneapolis Morning and Sunday Tribune.

OFFICES HELD: President, Richfield (Minn.) Citizens League, 1954-55, Association
of American Editorial Cartoonists, 1962; commodore, Lake Harriet Yacht
Club, Minneapolis, 1963.

MEMBER OF: Association of American Editorial Cartoonists; National Cartoonists
Society; Skylight Club, Minneapolis; Minnesota Press Club; Lake Harriet
Yacht Club; Inland Lakes Yachting Association; Westminster Presbyterian
Church, Minneapolis.

Most of my working hours since 1939 have been spent with my feet
on my drawing board or my shoulders hunched over it.

A cartoonist is always working hardest when his feet are on his board
and he is reclining in his chair, reading or staring absently out of the
window in search of a daily cartoon idea. Unfortunately, I have never
been able to convince anyone of this simple fact, not in tweny-five
years, not even my wife!

I have been drawing political cartoons for a living since graduation,
excepting for two war years as a junior grade lieutenant on an LST in
the Pacific and a few lean months working in a Minneapolis department
store. After three false starts as a cartoonist with the Boston Globe, the
Zanesville (Ohio) News and the St. Paul Pioneer Press, I began draw-
ing regularly, six cartoons a week, for the Minneapolis Star & Tribune
in 1943. I have been with the Minneapolis newspapers ever since. By
my estimate, 1943 was some 6000 cartoons ago.

There are substantial satisfactions in my work. Even though I am
anchored to my drawing board and badgered by deadlines, my mind is
free to wander the world and to express opinions on events anywhere.
And my newspaper often sends me on trips which break this routine,
writing and drawing about what I see both at home and abroad.

- Whether it is true or not, after twenty-one years in the same habitat
and in the same posture, I confess I’m beginning to fecl like a Minne-
apolis institution, like a weathered equestrian statue with a drawn saber

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 655

mounted on a soapbox in the public square. It is not that my cartoons
are confined to Minneapolis. They are syndicated across the country
and are quite frequently reprinted in all major U.S. publications, It is
because I realize that all the twenty-one-year-olds who were born within
the vast circulation area of the Minneapolis Tribune and who are
registering to vote this year for the first time have been looking at my
cartoons and have been subjected to my opinions all of their lives. It 1s
a frightening thought.

A political cartoonist ought to be a disagreeable tonic for his readers
like a spoonful of sulphur and molasses taken each morning to keep
the eye clear and the blood thin or whatever. | hope I have been and am
just that. In my case, however, the sulphur has slowly turned to molasses
and vice versa. I left Harvard as a strong conservative, but | find that |
have become more and more liberal as the years have passed,

Some of the old conservatism remains, however, and is self-evident. |
still have the same good wife I married in 1939 and both of us are
obviously strong believers in planned parenthood since our union has
produced three children, two of them presently in college and one of
them in second grade.

I have done a modest amount of writing for my newspaper and other
publications. [ have been president of the Association of American
Editorial Cartoonists and have won most of the national awards chat are
offered to cartoonists — if that means anything. I have dabbled in sub-
urban politics. My main hobby for the past five years has been yacht
racing on weekends and I have just finished a term as commodore of the
Lake Harriet Yacht Club. Lake Harriet is a round, deep puddle in the
heart of Minneapolis and only a mile wide, but we have 168 sailboats
moored there and about ninety of them race most of the time.

In the summertime all of my hobbies are related to the rugged life

out-of-doors. In the winter I generally read and read and gradually go
to seed.

ROBERT FORBUSH LOOMIS

 

HOME ADDRESS! 119 Pokonoket Ave., Sudbury, Mass.

OFFICE abpRESS: Algonquin Gas Transmission Co. I2Kb Soblere BPield Reb,
Brighton, Masa.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Maas.

656 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., 1939.
MARRIED: Helen Hale, Oct, 26, 1946. CHILDREN: William Worth, Aug. 6, 1948,
Catherine Forbush, May 10, 1950; John Denison, May 10, 1958.

occupation: Measurement of natural gas.

In retrospect, twenty-five years are difficult to account for. Where
have they gone? It seems certain that during this time the uncrowded
and unhurried college life we knew has disappeared forever. Perhaps
students today develop a stronger purpose at an earlier age.

My own life since 1939 I shall not attempt to assess properly — ic has
seen its wonderful as well as inevitably difficult moments. 1 am not sure
that I have ever truly found a career. At different periods ] have worked
as salesman, teacher and investment counselor. Presently I am employed
in the measurement department of Algonquin Gas Transmission Com-

any.
P During the war (World War II) I led a soldier’s life entirely devoid
of military action and free from court martials. A year spent in India
did give me a fairly intimate if in some respects distorted impression of
that country. I hope some day to return there as a civilian.

Our family lives in Sudbury, a recently rural community now just
becoming suburban. Life in the suburbs I could gladly do without were
Ia single man. I have developed a powerful aversion for puttering and
do-it-yourself projects. However, my understanding family makes en-
durable what otherwise might not be. Certainly, I have been most
fortunate in having a wife stand loyally by me through a rather long
illness. My three children I delight in watching grow up in their very
different ways.

Recreation for me in the past several years has meant acting with
various community theatre groups. It is most rewarding, I find, to step
briefly outside one’s own personality. In this manner I have turned
into doctors, detectives, farmers and many other types.

As for politics, 1 am a Republican by inheritance but an independent
by choice. I realize that if everyone held my position, the existing party
system would collapse, but I feel | must answer to my conscience.

At this point I take a sanguine look at the next twenty-five years.

RICHARD JAMES LOUGHLIN

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 657

HOME ApprEss: 25 Pleasant St., West Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Liberty Mutual Insurance Co., 175 Berkeley St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Concord High School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: a-B., 1939.

MARRIED: Frances M. Moynihan, April 19, 1942. cuipren: Richard James, Jr.
May 18, 1946; Mary Jeanne, Dec. 14, 1947; Lucy Ann, April 5, 1949; Frances
Margaret, Sept. 6, 1950; Barbara Jane, April 30, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Insurance (casualty and fire); chief personal risks casualty under-
writer (home office).

OFFICES HELD: Grand Knight, Concord Council, Knights of Columbus, 1947; trustee,

Liberty Mutual Club Benefit Fund, 1957-63; chairman, Town of Concord
Finance Committee, 1959.

MEMBER OF: Knights of Columbus; Maynard Country Club.

During my college years it had always been my intention either to go
to law school or become a teacher-coach. However, I did neither, but
rather I went to work for the Liberty Mutual Insurance Company in
Boston, as a rater in the Massachusetts automobile department. |

I worked in Boston until January of 1941, at which ume I was trans-
ferred to the Atlanta office of Liberty Mutual as assistant supervisor of
the non-fleet auto department. I was enjoying both my business and
social life in Atlanta immensely when I received a telephone call in De-
cember of 1941 to report to Fort Devens for my draft physical.

I subsequently enlisted in the Naval Reserve and received a commis-
sion as an ensign. In March of 1942, 1 was assigned to the Communica-
tions Center in Washington, D.C. It was shortly thereafter, April 19,
1942, to be exact, that 1 was married to Frances M. Moynihan and we
set up housekeeping in D.C.

In January of 1943, 1 went overseas and was assigned to a Fleet Air
Command. We were stationed at various islands in the South Pacitic
including Guadalcanal. After eighteen months of this duty I returned to
the States, received thirty days’ leave and was assigned to the aircraft
carrier USS Intrepid as a communications officer. Upon our return
aboard the ship to the States in 1944, I suffered a hemorrhage and ended

up in the Naval Hospital at Treasure Island. I was subsequently returned
to duty at the Naval District in Boston, where I received my discharge
in November of 1945.

In December of 1945, I returned to work with Liberty Mutual In-
surance Company and today am the chief casualty underwriter for the
Personal Risks Department, which position requires a certain amount of
traveling throughout this country and Canada.

My children are growing up these days, with the bey a senior in
high school, two girls in high school and two girls in the elementary
grades.

Since I have always been a great devotee of achletics, | aim verv
pleased that my son is a participant in football, hockev and baseball. Fle
hopes to be the starting center on the football team this vear and he was

a regular pitcher on the baseball team this past year. My daughrers are
also sports followers, unlike my wife, and my eldest daughter w a
participant in tennis and basketball.

My main hobby and source of recreation these days is golf. In the
past couple of years I have become an avid golfer and spend move ef my
weekends on the golf course. I have also been active in lowal town

658 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

affairs and am a member of the Town of Concord Finance Committee at
the present time. I have also been active in Little League and Pony
League, being currently secretary-treasurer of the latter organization.

For years | did not register as a Democrat or a Republican. A few
years ago I chose to register as a Democrat, but basically I am an inde-
pendent in my political beliefs. However, unless this country is to be-
come a one-party one, the Republicans need to become more dynamic
and forceful and to cease the “me too, but I can do it better” ap-
proach,

My years since graduation have been happy and rewarding ones and I

am hopeful that the years after our Twenty-fifth Reunion will be as
happy and rewarding.

THOMAS ERNEST LOVE +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 67 Grover St., Everett 49, Mass.

STANLEY LOVITT

   

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6302 Stover Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 452937,
orFice appress: Jewish Vocational Service, 2005 Vernon Pl, Cincinnati, Ohio
45219.

PREPARED AT: Jackson Central High School, Jackson, Miss,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECKEE: 8.8., cum laude, 1939,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 659

MARRIED: Jean Kaufmann, March 14, 1945. cHitpREN; Martha Sue, May 29, 1950;
Robert David, Nev. 23, 1953.

occuPATION: Placement counselor, Social Agency.
MEMBER OF: Cincinnati Guidance and Personnel Association.

Since graduation, I have had positions with the Federal Government,
been in retail merchandising both as an employer and emplovce. and for
the past five years have had an interesting and satisfying position as a
placement counselor with a non-profit social service avency.

During World War I, was stationed in El Paso, Texas, for thirty-
seven months with the Army Medical Corps.

PHILIP LEBOWICH LOWE

 

HOME aApDpRESS: 125 Cedar St., Newton Center, Mass. 02159.

OFFICE ADDRESS: H. C. Wainwright & Co., 60 State St. Boston, Masa,

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Carole A. Myers, Feb. 10, 1941. ctuto: Philip Myers, May 9. 1968

HARVARD SON: Philip Myers Lowe, ‘66.

occuPATION: Stockbroker; owner of motion picture theatres,

OFFICES HELD: President, National Association of Concessionaires, 1958.59, Variety
Club of New England, 1962-63, Belmont Country Club, since l96bs trustee,
Children’s Cancer Research Foundation, since 1902,

The past twenty-five years have been interesting ones which TP look
back on with conviderable grautude and humility for my good fortune,
I have been most blessed in the “garden of love” and tind my bride as
attractive today as twenty-three vears ago, and would rash te do at all
over again. We have a fine son whose character and conduct bring us
much happiness.

The mad world of “making a living” has been a major arca of acnvity
and augurs to remain that wav since [ have transferred my fiehl of av.
terest to the State Strect-Wall Street comple. Pm looking forward te
tackling a few more real problems before calling it a day in favor ef
playing the kind of golf I keep telling myyelf PE should.

After a continuing spectrum of PUPAL, Little Deagnes ete. in the
days gone by, TE now manage to devote more tine than reaseomible oe
organizational, charitable and community activities, Eitan prea jal
pleasures in life to be family, friends, golf and travel in that ort

660 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

I hope the last twenty-five years haven’t been without some accomplish-
ment. I like to feel it hasn’t been all “take” and no “give.” At this point
I consider myself gregariously anti-social in a rather outspoken way,
Any classmate who can really understand this last has come farther in-
tellectually in his twenty-five years since graduation than have I.

ROBERT TRAILL SPENCE LOWELL, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE appress: 15 W. 67th St., New York 23, NLY.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark's School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN CouLecE: 1935-1937. pecrres: a.B. (Kenyon Coll.), 1940; ti.p. (Colby
Coil}, 1961,

warateo: Elizabeth Hardwick, July 28, 1949. cuitp: Harriet Winslow, Jan. 4,
1957.

occupation: Writer: teacher.

orrices HEED: Formerly, consultant in poetry, Library of Congress; currently,
member, Institute of Arts and Letters; Phi Beta Kappa.
PUBLICATIONS: Life Studies, 1960; Imitations, 1962.

Presently teaching first term, 1963-64, at Harvard. Have won Pulitzer
Prize, National Book Award and Bollingen Prize for translation.

BERTRAND ERNEST LOWENSTEIN

     

HOME apprEss: 4 Magnolia Lane, Syosset, Long Island, N.Y.

Dr

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 661

OFFICE ADDRESS: 84-40 101st St., Richmond Hill 18, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, Riverdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939(38); M.p. (Colum-
bia Univ.), 1942.

MARRIED: Helen Stansill, Sept. 15, 1945 (divorced 1950); Elizabeth (Robin)
Miller Gardiner, May 10, 1952 (died 1960); Joanne Pharmer Neill. cHILDREN:
Jane, June 15, 1946; Judith Anne, June 28, 1961.

OccUPATION: Physician; director of clinical research, Endo Laboratories, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in pharmacotherapy, Harvard Medical School and
assistant in medicine, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, Boston, 1944-45; research
assistant in physiology, Yale Medical School, and assistant attending physician,
New Haven Hospital, 1945-46; research fellow in medicine, Cleveland Clinic,
six months, 1946; part-time associate in physiology and biochemistry, New
York Medical College, 1948-51; assistant research professor of physiology,
University of Miami Medical School, and research associate in endocrine
physiology, Dade County Cancer Institute, Miami, 1952-53; private practice
of medicine, South Miami and Ocala, Fla., 1953-61; chief, Metabolic Clinic,
Dade County Hospital, Kendall, South Miami, 1953-61; attending physician
in endocrinology and metabolism, Jackson Memorial Hospital, Miami, 1953-61;
assistant medical director, October, 1961, associate medical director, January,
1962, director of clinical research, June, 1962, Endo Laboratories, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Medical associations: Nassau County, New York State and Ameri-
can Medical Associations; American Heart Association; Association of Mili-
tary Surgeons; National Board of Medical Examiners (diplomate).

PUBLICATIONS: Twenty-three scientific papers published.

After being graduated from Harvard in 1938 (as of 39), I spent the
next four years acquiring the M.D. degree from Columbia University
Medical School (College of Physicians and Surgeons) in 1942. After
completion of further medical training as intern, resident and on the
faculty of the Harvard and Yale Medical Schools (as well as scientific
research during World War II under the auspices of the Office of Sci-
entific Research and Development), I began a career of medical practice
and clinical research which has led me to formulate a few ideas which
I consider to be new, original, constructive and worth while. If these
notions of mine achieve acceptance they will bring about a considerable
change in the management of certain types of disease —a change which
I expect will be for the better. In order better to pursue these ideas |
returned from Florida (where I had been living and working since 1952)
about two years ago to the New York area. The answers to all this
should be in within the next few years, and further plans after that will
obviously depend on whether I am right — or wrong!

662 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

WATSON LOWERY

    

HOME ApDpRESS: Springate Street, Utica, N.Y.
OFFICE appRESS: Lowery Brothers, Inc., 503 Broad St., Utica, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.
MARRIED: Virginia Harding, Jan. 11, 1942. cHtuprEN: Carlile, Nov. 16, 1943;

Watson, Jr., Aug. 30, 1946; Roy B., Oct, 23, 1949; Ann D., Aug. 17, 1953.

OCCUPATION: President, Lowery Brothers, Inc., cotton waste dealer — distributor of
janitor and maintenance supplies; vice-president, real estate company, broker
residential and commercial real estate; vice-president, management consultant

firm.
OFFICES HELD: Director, Oneida National Bank & Trust Company, Utica, N.Y.;

officer and director of several local charitable institutions.
MEMBER OF: Fort Schuyler Club; Sadaquada Golf Club; Yahnundasis Golf Club;
Military Order of the World Wars; Owl Club.

I left college in so-called “good standing” at the end of my sophomore
year and returned to small time life and business in Utica, New York.
Uncle Sam caught up with me early in 1941 and I spent the next five
years touring the U.S. as a private in the Field Artillery, an officer in the
Signal Corps, a B-zq pilot in the Air Corps and ended up flying a desk.
The year 1946 found me returning to Uuca with a discharge, my war-
time bride and a two-year-old daughter.

Small business and the idea of accounting to nobody other than my-
self seemed to have a great appeal to me, so [ am still flying solo in Utica
where I operate a cotton waste and maintenance supply business, a
real estate company dealing in residential and commercial property and
have recently activated a management consultant firm. A varied group
of activities which I hope will prove more lucrative by 1974.

As I have only myself to reprimand for not working, we take liberal
vacations as a family, plus frequent sorties that include only Virginia and
myself. We have hit Europe, most of the U.S., Bermuda several times,
most of the Caribbean Islands down as far as Tobago, and we enjoy some
time each summer on Squam Lake in New Hampshire. Besides my busi-
ness, I take a fairly active interest in several local charitable institutions.
Last but not least comes time for hobbies and I guess they can best be
described as an interest in golf, tennis, skiing, skating and maintaining a
nk on my front lawn in the winter, I have one good hockey
t Millbrook, a skier at Eaglebrook, the elder daughter at

hockey 11

rospect 2 . ’
Prtcliff and the blonde image of my wife still ac home. With these

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 663

offspring ranging from ten years old to twenty, we don’t have to worry
too much about how to spend the spare hours. We are all having a good
time as a family and the parents are fortunately getting an awfully good
refresher course in most every subject.

I hope to keep active in business the rest of my life, but once the
children are all educated, we hope to have a smaller house and spend
more time traveling. Virginia still wants to see the big game in Africa,
walk on the Great Barrier Reef and cruise the Greek Islands.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 241 Crafts Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dalton-Ingersoll Corp., 470 Parker St., Boston, Mass. 02115.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Elaine Newman, Aug. 29, 1942. cHILDREN: Joan Susan, April 30, 1944;
Carol, April 16, 1949.

OCCUPATION: President, Dalton-Ingersoll Corporation, wholesale distributor, plumb-
ing supplies.

Almost twenty-nine years have elapsed since my struggle through
English A. Time has not enhanced my talent or taste for writing —
especially about myself. I therefore yield my share of space to the many
literary lights of our class.

However, I would record here as my most noteworthy accomplish-
ment the fact that I have been the squire to one and the sire off
wonderful girls — Elaine, Joan and Carol, in that order.

I would also note that almost five years ago LE acquired the venerable
but neglected Boston firm of Dalron-Ingersoll (established 1Xg2), manu-
facturer and distributor of plumbing supplies. It has been exciting, al-
though often frustrating to wipe away the cobwebs and revitalize thes
fine old concern. I regard it as an interesting experiment in mibvidual
ownership and control during this era of absentee ownership and pro-
fessional management. Perhaps in my small way Tam helping ty keep
“private enterprise” as a part of the definition of our econamue swotem,

Oh yes, we have furnished, with more pride than profit, our materials
to many of Harvard's new and newly-remodeled buikhnags Viany of my

classmates will undoubtedly have occasion to use them on their return in
June,

two

664 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939
WILLIAM BAKER LUCAS

[aoe ro spa

   

   

HOME apbress: Granville, Ohio.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Lucas Supply Co., First & Market Streets, Newark, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Columbus Academy, Columbus Ohio.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DecREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; tus. (Franklin

Univ.) , 1947.

MARRIED: Phyllis Engler, June 5, 1942. cHmpren: George Robert, 2d, Sept. 30,
1943; Jeffrey Engler, Aug. 5, 1945; David Dodds, June 20, 1950; Ann FEliza-
beth, March 30, 1952.

HARVARD SON: George Robert Lucas, 2d, ’65.

OCCUPATION: President, industrial supply company.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club; Country Club.

Upon reviewing the twenty-five years since graduation, I come to the
inescapable conclusion that my life has been exceptionally pleasant, in
that I have been blessed with a wonderful family and friends and have
enjoyed a reasonable measure of success both social and economic.

After graduation I returned home to Columbus and went to work in
manufacturing, plus attending night law school on the side. After six
attempts, my Draft Board finally conceded that I must be 4F, so that I
felt safe in acquiring a wife and raising a family. My eldest son, Robbie,
is now a junior at Harvard, and his brother hopes to join him next year.
Needless to say, 1 am highly gratified!

I worked in various positions in manufacturing companies for sixteen
years and then bought a small, run-down wholesale hardware, plumbing,
and mill supply company in Newark, Ohio. I cleaned house, dropped all
but industrial supplies, and have expanded so that we now have branch
warehouses in Columbus and Galion, Ohio, and employ six salesmen.
Although this is a very competitive business, it is good fun to own your
own company and feel responsible for its success or failure.

Perhaps the most enjoyable part of life is living just outside the village
of Granville—home of Denison University—on four acres of land
with two horses and a quiet country club five minutes away. Columbus
is just thirty minutes away, so that we can combine both the country
and city life when desired. I see a great deal of former Harvardians, so
manage to keep young in spirit— and, believe me, the spirits are strong

although the flesh may be weak.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 665

JOHN FRANCIS LUCEY, JR.

Ba eernipsetneicr ornate naar cennneame gree ate MRT eens

= ce

 

HOME aAppREss: 8 Willo Lane, Loudonville 11, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First Trust Co., 1230 Central Ave., Albany 5, N.Y.; 1160 Central
Ave., Albany 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Albany Academy, Albany, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Letitia Arlene McCarty, July 24, 1943. cHitpren: Rosemary Elizabeth,
March 31, 1951; John Francis, 3d, March 12, 1954.

occupation: Assistant treasurer and Colonie branch manager, First Trust Com-
pany; attorney-at-law in family firm with father.

OFFICES HELD: Justice of Peace, Town of Colonie, 1950-58; member, Roessleville
School Board and South Colonie Central School Board, several years; presi-
dent, 1961, member, board of directors, Greater Colonie Chamber of Com-
merce; trustee and past president, secretary-treasurer, Harvard Club of
Eastern New York; past president, Colonie Republican Club and Unity

Council of Republican Clubs; First Grand Knight, Colonie Knights of
Columbus.

MEMBER OF: Aurania Club; Wolferts Roost Country Club; Colonie Exchange Club;
Holy Name Society and P.T.A. of St. Pius Church, Loudonville; Colonie
Lodge of Elks.

My first thought after graduation was to prepare for teaching, but
after investigation and careful thought entered Albany Law School of
Union University. In 1941 was admitted to the New York State bar and
soon was handling estates and trust accountings for First Trust Company
of Albany, with whom I had been afhliated summers while in college.
For awhile worked on the three to eleven shift at American Locomotve
Company in Schenectady as a plant guard; and even considered rerurn-
ing to grandfather Lucey’s vocation of farming in the Herkimer Valley.
My wife was in the same class as my sister Mary at the College of Se.
Rose in Albany, and in 1943 after graduation I persuaded her to give up
a budding teaching career and we were married.

The local Harvard graduate group was rather inactive, so we became
involved in promoting tri-city meetings with Troy and Schenectady,
visiting lecturers from Harvard College, prospective student interviews
Harvard Prize book distribution in che area secondary schools, and a
local scholarship and loan fund program. The Junior Chamber of Com-
merce reactivated in Albany in 1945, and 1 plunged in as secretary.
then vice-president. I was active statewide in the Javece movement as
state chairman of governmental affairs, and served as firwe stare chairman



666 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

of civil defense. We staged the first “A-Bomb Story Week” in the
nation in Albany and received commendation from Governor Thomas
Dewey and Albert Einstein among others.

About this time we bought our first little home in suburban Colonie
Township, and I have devoted most of my life to development of this
area. I was tapped for the local school board and became active in
grass-roots Republicanism. As a Catholic, [ was soon bell-ringer and
usher in Our Lady of Mercy Church and next we inaugurated a Colonie
Council of the Knights of Columbus. The centralizing movement of
the local school districts crystalized after sixteen years, and I became an
original member of the Colonie Central School District. As such we
planned and completed several million dollars of new school buildings
and additions.

After a one-vote miss in the campaign for nomination for Town
Supervisor, | later became Republican candidate and was elected Town
Justice for two four-year terms. In September, 1949, First Trust Com-
pany initiated a Colonie Branch and I “rejoined the ship”, and in thirteen
years we have built it up to a several million dollar institution, We are
at the head of an industrial park complex along the New York Central
Railroad, as well as in a city-hke suburban community with attractive
closeness to new arterial highways.

Next we organized a Chamber of Commerce in Colonie, first as a
division of Albany. Later we became a separate entity and have grown
quickly to over eight hundred members. As third president I spent a
fruitful but exhausting year covering over sixty square miles, urging
railroad depot relocations, dedicating new post offices, attending meet-
ings in Washington, Worcester and Syracuse, and speaking to service
clubs, high school graduations, and Memorial Day groups.

Some years ago we purchased a summer camp at Saratoga Lake near
enough for easy commuting, and there I have discovered a hobby —
plumbing, painting and carpentry work in fixing up our “summer
palace.” This summer we sat at lake-front and watched Harvard scullers
among others race on the lake in celebration of the Centennial of Racing
at Saratoga Springs. When the children both become good swimmers,
we hope to join the sailboat racing colony.

For hobbies, we do some dancing, bowling, golfing and swimming;
and daughter Mimi won a blue ribbon in her first horse show. Wife
Tesh is den mother to Jackie’s Cub Scout den. We feel it all-important
to give our children a good family life and religious background, and
both attend St. Pius X parochial school.

Not having attained any large financial success, I have tried to repay
my great debt to Harvard by community help to our schools, churches,
and charities, as well as by unflagging interest in our local alumni group.

Any regrets? Well, someday I would still like to try my hand at
teaching!

668 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ROGER CONANT LYNDON

    

HOME ApprESs: 1889 Superior Rd., Ypsilanti, Mich.
oFFIce aporEss: 3018 Angell Hall, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.

PREPARED aT: Derby Academy, Hingham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1941;

PH.D., 1946.

MARRIED: Barbara Whitmer, 1939 (divorced 1946); Susan White, 1946 (divorced
1962); Freda Jones, April 30, 1962. cuiLp: Jean, Sept. 4, 1942.

OCCUPATION: Professor of mathematics, University of Michigan.

MEMBER OF: American Mathematical Society; Mathematical Association of
America; Association for Symbolic Logic; ACLU.

PUBLICATIONS: Mathematical research papers.

After graduation 1 worked for my Ph.D. (Harvard °46), with two
years out (Albuquerque National Bank, 1939, Georgia Institute of Tech-
nology, 1941). Spent two years in Naval Attaché’s office (ONR), Lon-
don, 1946-48. Taught five years at Princeton, 1948-53. Have been at
Michigan since, apart from visiting appointments: University of Cali-
fornia, Berkeley, 1956-57, Institute for Defense Analyses, Princeton,
1959-60, Queen Mary College, University of London, 1960-61. I plan
to visit Queen Mary College again, 1964-65.

I live, with my wife, Freda, on five acres in a country village (Superior
Township, Michigan) and travel considerably in the U.S. and Europe. I
am very happy with my home, the university and with my professional
work. My social and political attitude is roughly liberal Democratic. I
have no religious convictions.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 649

THOMAS DOLE McCALL

ATOPIC TIRE FOR ENTS

   

   

HOME ADDRESS: 619 Edmonston Drive, Rockville. Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harry Diamond Laboratories, Washington 25, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Fiieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: 8.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Lucille Kirkland, April 14, 1945 (died Sept. 13, 1956): Susan Ann
Moss, June 29, 1957. cHitpRen: Thomas Kirk, May 33, 1956; Margarrt
Ruth, Feb. 12, 1958; John Lawson, March 19, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Electronics engineer.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.

PUBLICATIONS: Patent: Pulse Radar Simulator.

The only major item I have to add to the Twentieth Anniverary Re-
port is the birth of my second son, John. I have been doing essentially
the same kind of work since 1945 — electronic circuit design — although
my occupational title has changed a few times. Since leaving private
industry in 1950 I have worked for the same government organizanon,
which has also changed its title several times and is now the Harry
Diamond Laboratories. The field of electronics has also been changing
rapidly, so a part of my job is keeping up with new developments,

Although we moved from an apartment to a house in the suburbs
almost six years ago, I still don’t like to work in the vard —iny wite
has the green thumb in the family. My avecation is related to my work
since I like to repair old television sets, radios, tape recorders, ete., and
have built a stereo hi-fi. I confess I watch television, but make it bear-
able by using a remote control to silence commercials,

As our backyard adjoins the Rockville Civie Center, we're able to en-
joy many civic, church and social functions there without druving, in
fact, we listen to band concerts without leaving our back steps We
have been attending the Unitarian Church of Rockville and partictpaning
in its varied program. Vacations in Maine and trips to New York give
us a change of pace.

My family and I manage to lead a good life which is consoling in vies
of world tensions, domestic trials and the specd with which twenty tive
years can pass.

what; ele

670 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

JOHN BRYAN McCARTY

 

HOME Appress: 710 Dartmoor, Westfield, N.J.

OFFICE appRESS: 22 E. 40th St., New York 16, N-Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREES: s.B., 1939; m.B.a. (Northwestern Univ.),

1955.
MARRIED: Mary Gene Miller, June 28, 1941. cHmLpREN: Mary Phyllis, June 16, 1944;
Phebe Ann, Oct. 17, 1945; Jean Marie, Dec. 13, 1949; Barbara Jane, July 8,

1954,
OCCUPATION: Vice-president, production manager, Pipe Division, Johns-Manville

Corporation.
MEMBER OF: Echo Lake Country Club, Westfield, N.J.; Westfield Tennis Club.

Upon leaving college I obtained employment in the quality control
department of the Johns-Manville Corporation plant at Waukegan, IIli-
nois. In rgqg1 1 married Mary Gene Miller, a young lady from Omaha,
Nebraska, whom I had met as a junior at Harvard when she attended
Pine Manor Junior College. With the advent of the war I entered the
U.S. Army via the draft in 1942 and emerged four years later as a cap-
tain in the Transportation Corps. Returning to the Johns-Manville
Corporation I held a number of engineering and production responsibili-
ties at the Waukegan, Illinois, plant and managed through night school
studies to obtain an M.B.A. degree at Northwestern University. In 1956
I moved to New Jersey as manager of the Manville, New Jersey, insula-
tions plant and in 1959 joined the New York commuters as the vice-
president, production manager of the insulations division, and thence
moved to the same responsibility in the pipe division in 1962. Things
have not been dull or inactive, since to date the longest job assignment I
have encountered has been a little less than three years.

With a good deal of traveling to do my plus time has been devoted
to the variety of needs of my family of four growing daughters. I have a
continued devotion to tennis for exercise and bridge for relaxation. On
the side I have managed a Yale or Princeton game each year to keep in
touch.

I can probably be best described overall as a transplanted Midwesterner
with a family happily adapted to New York suburban life who looks
forward to future years with as much relish as that directed toward those

now past.

674 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

haps through these aspirations for a new member of the human race I
have revealed some of my own convictions.

In summary, it seems to me that the last twenty-five years have largely
heen an extension of the learning that started in Harvard Yard in 1935,

and only now do I feel that 1am beginning to know enough to start
living the next twenty-five.

JAMES FREDERICK McCONNOCHIE, II +

we

 

LAST WAILING ADDRESS: 65 Leewater Ave, Massapequa, N.Y.

JOHN KENNEDY McCORMICK, JR.

 

WOME Aaporess: 42 Summit Ave. Buffalo 14, N.Y,
Orrick Aponess: Phillips, Mahoney, Lytle, Yorkey & Letchworth, 1330 Marin Trust
Bldg. Buffalo 2. N.Y.

preraneo at: Arlington High School, Arlington. Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: a.B., 1939; Lip, 1942.

warnieD: Mary Jane Smith, May 12, 1956. cuttoren: John Kennedy, 3d, Sept.
AL, 1957 died Jan. 28. 1959); Charles Hatch, Dec. 35. 1959. Y>
occupation: Attorney.

member oF: New York State and Erie County Bar Associations; University Club of
Budalo; Buffalo Ornithological Society.

Afcer graduation I attended the Harvard Law School through the

TT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 675

middle of the third year when I entered the Army. Several months later
1 learned, much to my surprise and relief, that I had received my legal
bachelorhood at the June Commencement.

My military service commenced on Groundhog Day, 1942, and in-
cluded service in various camps and in various capacities, of which the
longest and most interesting was in the Judge Advocate’s Office at
Camp Claiborne, Louisiana, until I entered Officer Candidate School in
ogg. After commissioning and several months at Camp Edwards,
Massachusetts (a welcome return to my home state after years else-
where), 1 was sent to the Pacific, arriving in the Philippines as the
Japanese Emperor announced the surrender and in time to watch Gen-
eral MacArthur and the Japanese military leaders arrive at City Hall,
Manila, for the preliminary surrender conference. I was assigned to
the base headquarters for the occupation of the Nagoya, Japan, area and
served with it until the closing of the base in April, 1946. Next came
two months in Yokohama as defense counsel in the war crimes trials, a
month in General Headquarters in Tokyo and return to the States and
mufd.

Civilian life resumed where it had left off; I returned to the Law
School for a year to take courses for refresher purposes, In the fall of
1947, | started work in Buffalo, New York, with the firm of Kene-
fick, Cooke, Mitchell, Bass & Letchworth of which, now named
Phillips, Mahoney, Lytle, Yorkey & Letchworth, I eventually became a
partner. My work has been primarily in the field of real estate law, and
| have found it and related activities on the Real Estate Practices Com-
mittee of the local bar association interesting and satisfying.

The work was interrupted for awhile because, as a Reserve Army
officer, I was recalled to active duty during the Korean conflict, serving
in New Jersey and Japan. The Japanese part was really more pleasure
than work, since I was assigned to a team that toured the Japanese
islands making inspections of personnel utilization in the different camps,
with much more than the usual opportunity for sight-seeing all over
and including the traditional hike up Fujiyama.

After years of living in military bachelor quarters and the rather
similar atmosphere of the University Club in Buffalo, I finally entered
the state of matrimony, my best venture. My wife and I have had two
sons, of whom the first died after an operation and the second, being
now four, will soon be starting his education for Harvard, which he
says he is going to attend. We are also expecting in April a contender
for the title of the Class’s newest child.

My wife is an alumna of the College of New Rochelle and, accord-
ingly, a Roman Catholic; I hold membership in the Presbyterian
Church, and we find that going to different churches works our very
well, especially for taking care of the offspring. Politically our con-
victions are more homogeneous, both being Republican, though she
more die-hard than I.

My hobbies—other than the inevitable do-it-yourself activities
around the home — include a continuing, if non-participating, interest
in theatre and music, especially opera, mostly satistied during intermit-
tent visits to New York City. On the participating side, I] have moscly
been engaged with Ornithological Society activities, taking territories

676 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

in the bird censuses, going on field trips when possible and, of course
and more regularly, watching for cardinals in the back yard. More
extensive hiking than birdwatching affords seems to be of the past, but
I did spend weeks hiking in the Green Mountains and the Smokies in
the ‘go's. Travel is alwavs an interest, though mostly of the armchair
variety except during military service; one feature of the two tours
of duty with the Army was my completing the list of the States of the
Union which I had visited, except for Wisconsin, and that it took a
business trip in 1957 to collect. Currently, my travel interest concentrates
on newer and better highways to Vermont, where | customarily vaca-

tion, and these have been coming gradually. Let us hope the same can
be said for all our aspirations.

WILLIAM SMITH McCORMICK

 

HOME appRESS: 145 Pinckney St., Boston, Mass.
OFFICE apurrss: New England Life Insurance Co., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED aT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.
UNMARRIED.

occupation: Administrative assistant, Group Life and Accident and Health In-
surance.

  

CR ee yaar

JOHN TINNEY McCUTCHEON, JR.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 679

HOME ADDRESS: 281 W. Laurel Ave., Lake Forest, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chicago Tribune, Tribune Tower, Chicago 1}, Hl.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: s.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Susan Dart, Feb. 1, 1943. cuitpren: Anne Dart, Oct. 15. 1943: Mary
Shaw, July 13, 1947; John Tinney, 3d, May 28, 1949.

occupation: Editorial writer, Chicago Tribune.

OFFICES HELD: Reporter, City News Bureau, Chicago, 1930-40: reporter, 1940-41,
1946-51, columnist, 1951-57, editorial writer and member. editorial heard,
since 1957, Chicago Tribune: commander, USNR (retired, 1962); president,
Geographic Society of Chicago, 1955-57; trustee, Lake Forest Public Library,
sinee 1963.

MEMBER OF: Geographic Society of Chicago (director); Chicago Zoological So-
ciety (vice-president); Chicago Academy of Sciences (director); Harvard
Club of Chicago (former member, Scholarship Committee. and director);
Society of Midland Authors; Tavern, Wayfarers and Press Clubs (Chicago) ;
Onwentsia Club, Lake Forest.

Four years of invaluable experience on the Crimson prepared me for
a job as a reporter on the City News Bureau of Chicago, where for
nearly a year I covered district police stations and courts and encoun-
tered very few Harvard classmates. I moved to the Tribune as a neigh-
borhood reporter in 1940, and also into the Naval Reserve — which
moved me out of the Tribune in 1941 and back to the Harvard Business
School for training in the Supply Corps and (beginning on Dec. 8, 1941)
air raid drills which seemed highly incongruous with life at Harvard.

The Navy sent me first to the Naval Air Station at New Orleans, where
I acquired a wife and a daughter (now at Radcliffe), and then on an oil
tanker to the western Pacific, where we took part in operations at Eni-
wetok, the Admiralty Islands, the Philippines, Guam, and Okinawa, and
finally entered Tokyo harbor in September, 1945.

Back on the Tribune in 1946 1 did local reporting until 19st when |
became conductor of the column “A Line o’ Type or Two,” a column
of miscellany, including contributions from readers, which has been
running since 1901. There I discoursed so eloquently on everything
from manhole covers to geographic names that I was deemed capable of
tackling the social and economic problems of the world and in tos? be-
came an editorial writer and member of the editorial board. Here |
labor under the conviction that the more freedom, dignity, and respon-
sibility is accorded to the individual, the more he will do in general tor
himself and society.

Meanwhile, we have had two more children, built a house, and raised
two dachshunds — Rosie O'Grady (who has gone to the lind where

every hole has a chipmunk and every chipmunk has arthriris), and
Natasha.

678 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

DONALD McDONALD

 

HOME aporeEss: 358 Thornbrook Ave., Rosemont, Pa.

OFFICE appress: Montgomery, McCracken, Walker & Rhoads, 1421 Chestnut St,
Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Benson High School, Omaha, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREES: a.B., magna cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1942.

MARRIED: Jean Pettis, Dec. 28, 1948. cHi_preN: John Alexander, Sept. 22, 1951;
Jan, Aug. 7, 1953; Diane, April 6, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner, head of tax department.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Juristic Society, 1954; secretary, 1954-55, vice-
chairman, 1960, chairman, 1961-62, Committee on Taxation, Philadelphia
Bar Association; chairman, Section of Taxation Committee on Taxation of
Partnerships, American Bar Association, 1959-60; member, Advisory Com-
mittee, New York University Institute on Federal Taxation, 1960-63; chair-

man, Planning Committee, Pennsylvania State University Tax Seminar,
1961-63.

MEMBER OF: Rittenhouse Club; Union League of Philadelphia; American Law
Institute.

After graduation I stayed in Dunster House for two years as the
librarian and moved into Hollis Hall as the proctor for the third year
at the Law School: During the first two summers I worked as a day
laborer on construction jobs at §.30 to §$.35 per hour. World War II
made it possible for me to argue, and lose, the final two rounds of the
Ames Competition.

In April, 1942, I began the USNR V-7 program at Notre Dame. My
first assignment was as a drill and ordnance instructor on the USS
Prairie State in New York City. After training at SCTC, Miami, we
fitted out the SC 1305 in Daytona Beach and took her to Curacao and
Aruba, where routine patrol off Venezuela included trips to Puerto Rico
and Panama. Very briefly in 1945 I was sent no further west than Pear]
Harbor to the USS Roper, APD 20, through San Francisco with
temporary duty as a U.N. courier. When the Roper was decommis-
sioned at Mare Island in the month following Japan’s surrender, 1 went
to Washington, D.C., to the achievement testing unit of the Bureau of
Personnel and finally returned to the law in the Office of General
Counsel of the Navy.

In September, 1946, I joined a bachelor group in Chestnut Hill and
began an apprenticeship as a tax lawyer with Montgomery, McCracken,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 679

Walker & Rhoads. Not only were all of the named partners of the firm
then still living, but the retired Justice Roberts, of Counsel, was in his
office almost daily. In 1952, my contemporaries and | began to meet
monthly to discuss tax law. The recodification of the Federal tax law
in 1954, the Annual Meeting of the American Bar Association in Phila-
delphia, and the formation of the Committee on Taxation of the Phila-
delphia Bar Association in the same year stimulated my constant active
participation thereafter in continuing legal education and bar asso-
ciation activities related to taxation.

From December, 1955, to October, 1956, I left the firm to be Special
Assistant to the Head of the Legal Advisory Staff, U.S. Treasury De-
partment, reviewing the regulations being issued under the 1954 Internal
Revenue Code. In 1956, Montgomery, McCracken, Walker & Rhoads
asked me to return to Philadelphia as a partner, and Congressman Mills,
chairman of the Subcommittee on Internal Revenue Taxation, named
me to the Advisory Group on Subchapter K relating to partnership
taxation. In 1957, with two co-authors, the American Law Institute pub-
lished probably my only book, Taxation of Partners and Partnerships.

The twenty-fold increase in Federal revenue demands since we were
graduated — and a comparable increase in statutory and decisional texts
— poses difficult political and practical questions. Not the least of these
is whether the tax laws now developing can be “clear and plain” to the
taxpayers, to the revenue agents, to the courts, or to those of us who
try to tell the taxpayers what the law is.

It was not until December, 1946, that I met, and December, 1948, that
I married, Jean Pettis, a third generation Wellesley graduate whose
family had been neighbors of my family two generations earlier. Our
first child, John Alexander, better known as “Sandy,” was born in 1951.
Jan and Diane followed in 1953 and 1958. To find room for the children
we moved from Wayne to Haverford to Rosemont. Usually cach year
we spend two or three weeks in June, July, or August in the family
cottage at Omaha Beach on Lake Okiboji, lowa, for reading, rocking,
swimming, sailing, a little tennis, and for the children, rowing and fishing.
In addition we have taken them to Williamsburg, Monticello, the Grand
Tetons and Yellowstone, Los Angeles and San Francisco by way of all
convenient national parks, and to Maine—all by automobile. From
excellent private schools where the Bible is still read, some educational
TV, and Sandy’s interest in radio and an HQ railroad — shared gen-

erously with his father—the three seem to be learning more than |
recall knowing at their ages.

TT Me Merete ny eat ah eo

680 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

STUART FULLER MacDONALD

meee

   

HOME appress: 31 Crown Ridge Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Clement Lathes, Inc., 80 Bacon St., Waltham 54, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Washington Irving High School, Tarrytown, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. precREES: A.B., 1939; w.B.a., 1941.

marrige: Barbara Sewall (Wellesley 38), May 1, 1943. cHitpREN: Sandra, March
19, 1944; Stuart Fuller, Jr., July 7, 1946; Laurie Sewall, Nov. 4, 1947.

occuPaTioNn: Treasurer, manager and 50% owner of two small shops specializing
in furnishing precision parts and assemblies to prime contractors in the
missile, space and electronic fields.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Doelcam Corporation, January, 1947, to June,
1950; treasurer, Clement Lathes, Inc., since March, 1951; president, Precision
Components, Inc., since May, 1953.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Business School Alumni Association; Harraseeket Yacht

ub.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous articles on numerically controlled machine tool
equipment.

After two years at the Harvard Business School and an unsuccessful
attempt to jom the Navy, I went to work for Sperry Gyro on Long
Island. The company was growing rapidly and I managed to land a
wide variety of interesting assignments, including a six weeks’ attachment
to the M.L.T. Instrumentation Laboratory.

Barbara and I were married in May of 1943, living in, of all places,
Brooklyn for two years.

With the war over and Sperry in the process of consolidating under
one greatly reduced roof, I accepted an invitation to join Doelcam Cor-
poration, Newton, Massachusetts, in July of 1946, becoming vice-presi-
dent the first of the following year. Doelcam was in effect a miniature
Sperry, similar in capabilities and with similar problems, so that the tran-
sition was relatively uncomplicated.

With three small children, three, two and one month, we moved into
a new house in Wellesley. As the kids grew larger the house grew
smaller, but now with two of the three away at school most of the time,
I, at least, am glad we did not succumb to the desire to switch to a
larger and more expensive home.

In 1950 I had the opportunity of becoming fifty per cent owner of a
small machine shop supplying precision mechanical parts and com-
ponents to missile, space and electronics companies, mostly on Route 128.

682 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

orrice appress: E/MDC, Dept. of State, Washington 25, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Rahway High School, Rahway, N.J.; Princeton Preparatory School,
Princeton, NJ.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1939.

marrteo: Elizabeth Hall Townsend, Nov. 7, 1942. CHILDREN: Pamela Jean, Sept.
19, 1945; William Armour, Jr., Sept. 6, 1949; Diana Elizabeth, March 20, 1957,

occupation: U.S. Foreign Service officer; currently assigned as Deputy Chief,
Mutual Defense Staff, Department of State.

MEMBER OF: American Society of International Law; Metropolitan Club, Wash.
ington. D.C.; Cercle Royal Gaulois Artistique & Littéraire, Brussels, Belgium;
Harvard Clubs of Brussels, New York and Boston; Reserve Officers Associa-
tion; U.S. Army Reserve (colonel).

Following graduation I had a brief spell with a business firm in New
York before being called to Army duty. The Army absorbed my time
for six years, with duty at various posts in the United States, and in the
Panama Canal Zone. With the end of the war I enrolled in the Business
School, withdrawing at the end of the first year to enter the Foreign
Service. ] have served at our Embassies in Rome, Moscow, Paris and
Brussels, with several tours of duty (like the present) at the State
Department.

This existence has meant no community roots, and few of the civic
activities that accompany a stable and long-term residence. There are
times when one misses the stability of being a durable member of a
community, particularly when it is time to prepare for the packers.
In spite of the succession of highly interesting cities in which my family
and I have resided abroad, my children especially have from time to
time yearned for a more parochial existence. For myself, such nostalgia
is tempered by conversations with friends and acquaintances who have
fixed and permanent residences, with no obligation to pack up and move
every few years; not infrequently, I find I am the object of envy, and
my peripatetic existence regarded not as a chore but a privilege — and
a means of escaping the hemmed-in feeling that apparently besets some

who don’t change their domiciles every few years. All of this, I suppose,
merely proves the “grass is greener” theory. On balance, the Foreign
Service was for me and my wife a wise choice. It has had few moments
of dullness, and on the whole has been lively, interesting and rewarding.

JOHN ROBERT McGAUGHEY, JR. +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 42 Pearl St., Bridgewater, Mass,

OO

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 683

STEPHEN TROMBLEY McGRATH ft

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 41 Pearl St., Kingston, N.Y.

DONALD EMERSON McLEAN

EARS TS ARE Mae Fr woo Sipe a ea
, 4 L 7 “ oS i

“4

4g

a

4

4

4

    

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Grove St., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 38 Church St., Winchester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; M.D., 1943.

MARRIED: Jeanne A. Rook, Feb. 5, 1944. cHitpren: Laurie Jean, July 18. 1946;
Duncan Cameron, July 30, 1948; Donna Rook, Jan. 18, 1951.

occuPaTION: Physician (pediatrician).

OFFICES HELD: Staff member of several hospitals; chief of pediatrics, Winchester
Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Pediatrics; American Academy of Pediatrics;
Massachusetts and American Medical Societies: New England Pediatric So-
ciety; Aesculapian Club; Boyleston Medical Society; Masons.

PUBLICATIONS: Fit to be Tied, co-author,

Those twenty-five years went by so rapidly that it’s impossible to give
a completely coherent account. Chronologically we can follow che
thread for each of us — mine follows this road:

I crossed the Charles after graduation and took up residence atthe
Harvard Medical School until T was graduated in 1943. Following thus |
remained as intern at the Children’s Elospital in Boston just long enough

684 HARVARD CLASS OF I 939

to purloin the gem of their nursing staff as my wife. I married Jeanne
before offering my services to the U.S. Army Medical Corps. Inciden-
tally, this option was snapped up and I remained on the federal payroll
until discharged in 1946.

Following a residency at the Neurological Institute of New York I
completed my formal training in pediatrics as resident at Children’s
Hospital in Boston.

Then in January, 1948, with one child, one wife, one car and little else
1 began practice of pediatrics in the delightful town of Winchester
seven miles north of the Hub. This town is a stronghold of Harvard
alumni and 1 have been treated very well and could not have made a
more fortunate decision. The practice and family have expanded to per-
fect and not gross proportions,

Laurie is seventeen and a senior at the Winchester High School.
Duncan at fifteen is at Belmont Hill School, and Donna, twelve, has
started Junior High in Winchester. Whether there will be a Harvard
son remains in the future and according to his abilities and his wishes.

Fortunately, the children were blessed with their mother’s appearance.

My main avocation has been working with youth groups generally
associated with church units, Asa result [ was co-author of a small book
dealing with sex instruction of the teen-ager of high school age. Lec-
tures and briefing on this subject have been time-consuming but very
worthwhile.

Jeanne and I live a relatively benign, harmless but happy life in
suburbia — she watches birds and I lecture on sex.

  

DOUGLAS GROVER MacLEOD

RT mgm MS 8 ay

  
  

 

 

wee
~ Ff

( a “- ae

tao

“y

%

   
  

wd
- “S
~~

ig] oth

HOME appRESS: 8 Samson Drive, Westhoro, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 260 Munroe St., Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lawrence Academy, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939,

marrieD: Dorothea Eburne, Lasell Junior Coll., 36, Nov. 13, 1937, cHitprEN: Carol
Elaine, Dec. 16, 1939 (m. Victor A. Huggard, Jr., 1962); Richard Eburne,
Sept. 28, 1941; John William, March 30, 1948; Douglas Grover, Jr. May 3,
1951.

occupation; Sales representative for Maryland Cup Company.

MacLeod’s wife sent in the following story;

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 685

“Carol, our favorite daughter, graduated from Lasell Junior College and
from Valparaiso University. Last year she was married to Victor A.
Huggard, Jr., also a Valparaiso graduate, and a civil engineer, and they
are living on Long Island.

“Richard went to Lawrence Academy in Groton, Massachusetts, and
enlisted in the Army. At present he is attending school at Fort Rucker,
Alabama.

“John and Douglas, Jr., are both students at St. Mark’s School in
Southboro, Massachusetts. John is in the fourth form and Douglas is in
the first. There are two Harvard "39ers on the faculty there: John has
Bob Burnett for a football coach and Doug has Fred Uhlen for an
English master.

“Douglas, Sr., has been active in civic affairs in Westboro. He served
on the Finance Committee for several years and last year was elected
Moderator. He knows his ‘Roberts’ Rules of Order’ inside out and
does a terrific job of conducting the town meetings. He is also president
of our Good Shepherd Lutheran Church here in Westboro, In his
spare (?) time he is an avid golfer (and a good one, too), an excellent
bowler and through the years I have found he is most handy with a
hammer and nails! Talent unlimited!

“Life is very pleasant, though busy, here in our small town.

“As for the future — John has his eve on Harvard and Harvard Law
and Douglas, Jr. has his eye on West Point.”

* MALCOLM JAMES MacLEOD

 

BORN: Aug. 23, 1916, New York, N.Y. PARENTS: Malcolm James VarLeod, Edith

Wilson.
PREPARED AT: Lawrence Academy, Groton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937, 1939-1941. pecren: sp. 19890041).
piED: Killed in action, Nov. 22, 194-4 in England.

Malcolm James MacLeod was a lcutenant in the Anny Nir Force
when he was killed in action in England. He was survived by his mother

686 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HUGH LIVINGSTONE MACNEIL

Sa ENT Do DY TT RET TERR Froese *

TERY A RTE

      

HOME ADDRESS: 1199 S. Pasadena Ave., Pasadena, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: O'Melveny & Myers, 433 S. Spring St., Los Angeles 13, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Catalina Island School for Boys, Catalina, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pecREES: a.B., 1939; 11.8. (Loyola Univ. of Los
Angeles) , 1948.

marriED: Allen Bagby, Nov. 25, 1943. cHILDREN: Mary Allen, Sept. 6, 1944; Maria
Antonia Wilcox, Oct. 11, 1946; Lucy Parke, May 29, 1948; Daphne Drake,
Nov. 10, 1950; Sayre, June 19, 1954; Philip Bagby, June 15, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Member of firm, O'Melveny & Myers, attorneys.

MEMBER OF: California Club.

After graduating from Harvard, | worked for a year in a small
brokerage firm in Los Angeles and in the fall of 1940 joined the Navy
V-7 program for what was announced to be a four months’ stretch, but
which turned out to be five years. During three of these years I taught
at the Naval Officers Indoctrination School at Fort Schuyler, New York,
where I met and married my wife. I finally ended up on two different
transports in the Pacific, Three days after being discharged from the
Navy, I entered law school and ever since graduating, in 1948, have
been with my present firm.

Other than my work, my principal occupation has been assisting in
the raising of my six children, which at times has been somewhat hectic
but for the most part has been a great deal of fun. There are many
opportunities for camping in California, and many of our vacations have
been spent with the children in this manner.

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 687

JAMES MANNING McNULTY, JR.

 

HOME appbress: 501 Beacon St., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1180 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; mp. (Boston Univ.), 1943.
MARRIED: Mildred B. Sullivan, Sept. 17, 1949. CHILDREN: Rosanne, July 20. 1950:

Claire, Sept. 19, 1951; James, July 30, 1954; Elaine, March 24, 1936; Carol,
Jan. 8, 1960.

OCCUPATION: General surgeon.
OFFICES HELD: Instructor of surgery, Boston University School of Medicine; active
stafls: Boston City Hospital, St. Elizabeth's, Faulkner, et al.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons; American Board of Surgery; Boston
Surgical Society.

Engaged in the practice of general surgery in Boston since 1950, after
residency at Boston City Hospital, interrupted by three years in the

service. Now live near Boston, enjoying hfe with a young, growing
family; well-domesticated.

WILLIAM KINGSLAND MACY, JR.

 

HOME aporess: Islip Avenue, Islip, Long Island, N.Y. P1751.

PREPARED aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1949, peuRen: aca, 1999,

MARRIED! Margarette Old, July, LOM (ativerced P5210; Theodora Nraold, June
13, 1958. cure: William Kingsland, 3d, Oct, 24, bebe

688 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, treasurer and director, 1945-55, president, 1955-63,
Suffolk Broadcasting Corporation; vice-president and director, Suffolk Consoli-
dated Press, since 1945; vice-president, 1960-62, director, since 1960, Nassau-
Suffolk Comm. on Alcoholism (now the Long Island Council on Alcoholism) ;
member, Board of Visitors, Central Islip State Hospital, 1947-50, Pilgrim
State Hospital, 1950-52; member, executive committee, Suffolk County Council
of Boy Scouts, 1960-62; member, Rotary Club of Patchogue, 1956-63.

MEMBER OF: Southside Sportsmen’s Club (now Connetquot River Club); Racquet
and Tennis Club; Bayberry Beach and Tennis Club; New York Zoological
Society; American Museum of Natural History; Audubon Society; Navy
League of the US.

After graduation I worked for about a year on Long Island, then,
as now, definitely preferring life in the country to that of a cliff dweller.

In the fall of 1940 I signed up for the V-7 program in the Naval Re-
serve, receiving my ensign’s commission on the Prairie State in June,
1941. Several of us signed up for one year's active duty. The one year
for me ended in December, 1945, having served on a motley array of
ships in the American, European and Pacific Theatres, climaxed with
Iwo Jima and Okinawa. In December | received a Certificate of Satis-
factory Duty as a lieutenant commander.

On returning home J acquired a place in Islip (where I still live) and
met my year-old son, who was quite well house-broken by then, for
the first time. The family and I started a local broadcasting corporation
in late 1945, but the vagaries of this ever-growing octopus of our federal
government or bureaucracy, call it what you may, kept us so bewildered
that active operation did not commence until the spring of 1952. I was
vice-president until 1955 and president until we sold our two AM and
one FM stations on November ist of this year. Government oppression
by this time had become unbearable.

In the late 1940’s and early 1950's, | worked with the New York State
Conservation Department and to a limited extent on our newspapers
and other projects. 1952 found me involuntarily single, but by 1958 I
located my second and last bride (single life is for the proverbial birds).
IT am an Episcopalian and Republican of the Goldwater, “Harry Byrd”
school of thought, a conservative, a word some of my fellow graduates
would give a malodorous connotation.

As to avocations, these were always so numerous as to interfere with
my erstwhile vocation. Shooting, fishing, aviculture, horticulture, any-
thing to do with nature, always have been my chief interest. Somewhere
in the fields of conservation, aviculture or ornithology I will find my
true vocation.

My general philosophy of life is that man is far too impressed with
his contrived achievements, instead of trying to learn from God-made
things and thereby achieving a better world and a better life.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 689

ROBERT CLINTON MADDEN

 

HOME ADpDRESS: 122 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 24 School St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

- YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936. DEGREES: s.B. (Trinity Coll.), 1940; mer. (Harvard
Univ.), 1949.

MARRIED: Ellen O’Donnell, Dec. 27, 1960.

OCCUPATION: School supplies.

MEMBER OF: Society of American Foresters; Union Boat Club; Eastern Yacht Club;
Wianno Yacht Club.

The time I spent at Harvard was not lengthy. After freshman year I
had to go to summer school where I received the required B and C, but
regardless I went to Trinity College and graduated from there. Next I
went to work for a paper company and then a year at the Harvard Busi-
ness School and then the Army, which sent me to the Pacific.

Following the Army, I spent a year studying forestry at the University
of Michigan, and for many years my primary activity was forestry. I
was connected mostly with pulpwood operations in Maine, the Maritime
Provinces and Alabama, and later worked for a consulting forester near
Bangor, Maine. 1 forgot to mention that I spent a year at Harvard
Forest, Petersham, Massachusetts, and received a Master of Forestry
degree from Harvard in i949.

By 1960 I had left the woods and was selling lubricants for a small oil
company. Also, I was sitting up nights with a girl. So I became married
and now get more sleep.

My most recent endeavors involve the promotion of specialized school

_ supplies, but what really keeps me enthusiastic is a lot of skiing in the
winter and sailing in the summer.

There is little else to mention except that one always has to be pre-
pared for the future. So, now is the time to make provision for a “lost
week” in June, 1989.

690 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

JOSEPH FRANK MAGRI

 

BorN: Feb, 28, 1917, Watertown, Mass. PARENTS: Antonio Magri, Frances Cuce.
PREPARED AT: Hyde Park High School, Hyde Park, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1937, 1938-1939,

piED: July 4, 1963, Braintree, Mass.

Joseph Frank Magri spent three years with our Class. He was in the

real estate business in Hyde Park, Massachusetts. He was survived by
his mother.

EDWARD M. MAISEL +

PR Ci APA. Ig 3

 

LAST MAILING appRESS: 140 Linwood Ave., Apt. 11A, Buffalo, N.Y.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 691

_ SHERMAN JOSEPH MAISEL

4

       

HOME ADDRESS: 770 Hilldale Ave., Berkeley 8, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of California, Berkeley 4, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N-Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.r.a., 1947;
A.M., 1948; PH.p., 1949,

MARRIED: Lucy Cowdin, Sept. 26, 1942. cHILDREN: Lawrence, March 2, 1948;
Margaret, May 10, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Professor of Business Administration, University of California.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Berkeley Board of Education, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; American Statistical Association;
numerous other more specialized professional associations.

PUBLICATIONS: Housebuilding in Transition, 1953; Fluctuations, Growth and Fore-
casting, 1957; four monographs; over a dozen articles in professional journals.

In the nine years following graduation, I worked two vears in Wash-
ington for the government, was in the Army for nearly five years; spent
a year in Brussels with the State Department; and finally returned to
Harvard for two years at the Littauer School, ending with a Ph.D in
Economics.

Lucy and I were married during the war, and before I finished
graduate school, we had lived in over thirty dwellings in ten cities in the
United States and Europe. The birth of our son, Larry, and the com-
pletion of my Ph.D. dissertation occurred almost simultaneously,

1 joined the faculty of the Business School at the University of Cali-
fornia, Berkeley, in September 1948. We still feel like relative new-
comers, but in fifteen years, I seem to have moved from a very junior to
one of the most senior professors, the University has progressed from a
good state university to one of the outstanding world universities; and
California has become the Union's most populous state,

I lead the pleasant, varied, and satisfying life that seems to be fairly
typical of today’s university professor: days over-filled with teaching,
conducting research, industrial and gov ernmental consulting, and) serv-
ing ona variety of university and civ ic COMMmttEEs,

We have taken advantage of many opportunities to travel, often for
extended periods. Since the war, we have been in Furope four tines
twice for stays of a year in length, On two other occasions we lived en
the East Coast for a year, including a return to Harvard as a student im
the Institure of Basic Mathematics with Applicanion to Business. In the

692 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

course of our countless cross-country treks, we have covered nearl
every latitude from Yucatan to Jasper, and every state except Alaska,
The past summer, we toured Europe for ten weeks, en famille, revisiting
many familiar and favorite spots as well as discovering the beauty of
Greece and Yugoslavia.

Much as we enjoy these trips, we are always glad that our home base
is in the San Francisco Bay Area. With its beautiful location and its
excellent social and intellectual climate, Berkeley is a most stimulating
place. I have become increasingly active in community affairs, and am
currently serving as an elected member of the Board of Education. In
this capacity, | am on the firing line in the modern American Revolu-
tion, trying to integrate fully and provide an education for excellence to
one of the most racially and intellectually diverse school populations in
the country,

 

HOME ADDRESS: 339 County Line Rd., Amityville, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: South Oaks Psychiatric Hospital, Amityville, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Boston College High School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; Mp. (Boston Univ.), 1942.
MARRIED: Shirley Iisley, Feb. 19, 1944. CHILDREN: Sally Katherine, Jan. 6, 1945;

Carolyn Anne, Jan. 5, 1946; Stephen Edward, Oct. 13, 1947; Patricia Eldridge,
May 15, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Former president, District Branch, American Psychiatric Associa-
tion, 1958.

MEMBER OF: American Psychiatric Association (fellow) ; American Medical Asso-
ciation; Uniqua Corinthian Yacht Club.

After leaving Harvard I entered medical school at Boston University,
graduating in 1942. | spent a year as an intern in surgery at the Boston
City Hospital and then went into the Army, I was assigned to psychiat-
ric duties and have been continuously involved in psychiatry ever since.
My Army years were spent in general hospitals in this country and, as a
psychiatrist of course, In 4 disciplinary barracks,

I married in early 1944 —Shirley Isley —a student nurse, effectively
preventing her from graduating. We had two children during the war
years. Sally is now in training, Carolyn is a senior in high school. I
jeft the Army, a captain, in 1946 and became a resident in psychiatry at

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 693

Cushing Veterans Administration Hospital, then in Framingham, now in
Jamaica Plain, Massachusetts. I completed the residency in 1948, took
and passed the specialty boards, and moved to Bridgeport, Connecticut,
where I was in charge of a new out-patient clinic run by the Veterans
Administration. I stayed there for one and a half vears, decided the VA
didn’t really want a clinic there, and moved to Norwalk to run an out-
patient clinic for the local general hospital, again a new clinic. I spent
one and a half years there and then moved to Amityville, New York, as
physician in charge of a private psychiatric hospital. This was in 1952.

By that time, we had added a son, Stephen, now a junior in high school
and, of all things, a soccer player. We have lived continuously in
Amityville since 1952. It is a village of about 10,000 people on the south
shore of Long Island, essentially a village of commuters. It’s an old
village without the atmosphere of the surrounding new development
areas, and without the somewhat rarefied atmosphere of the north shore.
Golf, fishing, boating, etc., are the recreational pursuits. I stayed with
that hospital until 1959 when it was sold. I then moved next door to
another private hospital, not as physician in charge, and have been there
since. In the meantime, we had our last child, Patricia.

Psychiatry as a medical specialty has in the recent past expanded con-
siderably in importance and power. Whether this is altogether justified
is a matter open to speculation. Recently, Szaz at Syracuse published
The Myth of Mental Illness which surprisingly received almost nothing
in the way of publicity and promotion, apparently so essential in the de-
velopment of new ideas (Darwin, I think, made this point also). My
ideas are roughly the same as his. Psychiatry, you see, is always in-
volved with problems of religious and social convictions and frequently
with problems of political convictions. If I went into detail it would be
like a report for a journal. In brief, I regard psychoanalysis as in the
same order of things as faith healing. Psychiatric treatment is almost
always the treatment of naiveté and the results of naiveté. In general, I
would say we need more courage and less hope.

* ALAN SHEARER MANNING

 

Born: Feb, 7, 1917, Fall River, Mass, parents: Frank

beth Shearer Bernard Manning, Fla.



694 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: s.B., 1939.
prep: Killed in action, October 24, 1944, in the Pacific area.

After graduation Manning was commissioned as second lieutenant in
the Marine Corps and served with the Fourth Marines in Shanghai,
China, until November, 1941. After the outbreak of the war he was
transferred to the Philippines and promoted to first lieutenant. He
fought on Bataan and Corregidor until taken prisoner on May 12, 1942,
the day on which he was promoted to captain. He was a prisoner of the
Japanese until his death when the prison ship on which he was being
transferred from the Philippines was sunk. He received the Purple

Heart, with two gold stars, and the Silver Star Medal. He was survived
by his mother and a sister,

FDWARD MARCUS

nosne Ne URN ARES MRE RET Te

     

HOME ADDRESS: 531 EB. 20th St., New York, N.Y. 10010.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Economics Dept., Brooklyn College, Brooklyn, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Boys High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1936-1939. pECREES: s.B., magna cum laude, 1939; M.B.A., cum
laude, 1941; px.p, (Princeton Univ.) , 1950.

MARRIED: Mildred Rendl, Aug. 10, 1956.

occupation: Professor of economics.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; American Finance Association;
African Studies Association; Phi Beta Kappa; International African Institute;
Society for International Development; Canadian Political Science Associa-
tion; Royal Economic Society; Metropolitan Economic Association, New York;

American Association of University Professors; Economic Society of South
Africa.

PUBLICATIONS: Canada and the International Business Cycle, 1926-39; Investment
and Development Possibilities in Tropical Africa, with Mildred Marcus.

Drafted into U.S. Army in October, 1941. Released to accept com-
mission as ensign in U.S. Coast Guard. Graduate work at Harvard
Business School, 1939-41, King’s College, University of Cambridge, 1946-
47, Princeton, 1947-50. Economist, Federal Reserve Board, 1950-52.
Teaching at Brooklyn College since then. Visiting professor at New
York University Graduate School of Business Administration, 1960-61,
Columbia, summer 1963.

My wife and I spent my sabbatical leave in Africa, 1958-59, also the

696 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Upon graduation, | decided at the last possible moment to go to the
Harvard Law School after having completed arrangements for attendance
at a midwestern school. I entered the Army in March of my third year
in the Law School but obtained my LL.B. degree with the class of ’42
without having to return to Cambridge to finish the final year. Of the
three years and ten months I spent in the Army, Albuquerque, New
Mexico, was my “home” for three and one-half years.

After army service, I returned to Sioux City, Iowa, and became em-
ployed by the firm of Shull and Marshall. A few years later I became a
partner and am still engaged in the practice of law in the same firm, now
known under the name of Shull, Marshall, Mayne, Marks & Vizintos, The
Mayne in our firm is an old Kirkland House friend, Wiley E. Mayne ’38.
The Mayne and Marks influence is evidenced by the fact that the two

youngest associates have Harvard training, one in the college and the

other in the law school.
The twenty-five years since graduation have passed so quickly that

I can hardly believe it to be true that I did graduate from Harvard

College a quarter of a centry ago. As I reflect upon the possible reason

for this feeling, 1 am sure that the time has passed so fast because I have

always been busy and happy. I have worked hard, have had a good

family life, have been active in many things and find myself generally
satisfied with life.

JOHN BYRON MARTIN

x

. iy
ae

   

    

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Fredericktown, Pa.
PREPARED AT: East Bethlehem Township High School, Fredericktown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREES: AB., 1939; m.p. (Univ. of Pittsburgh) , 1943.

MARRIED: Nancy McClure Bliss, June 13, 1942, c en: John Byron, 2d, April
6, 1946; Pamela B., Aug. 3, 1950, HILDREN: John Byron

occupation: Physician — industrial surgeon, general practice.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Boy Scout Troop Committee; trustee, Methodist Church;
member, Scholarship Committee, Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Western Pennsylvania; Masonic Lodge — AAONMS;

Veterans of Foreign Wars; American Legion; SCCA (Steel Cities Region) $

A-C-Duesenberg Club; Moose; American Medical Association; Nemacolin
Country Club.

After Harvard went to University of Pittsburgh Medical School,
joining Medical ROTC in 1941, Commissioned first lieurenant in Army

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 697

Medical Reserve and received M.D. in March, 1943. Went on active
duty in January, 1944, and went to Europe later as battalion surgeon
with 422d Infantry. Captured in Battle of the Bulge, liberated in May,
1945. Discharged as captain in November, 1945, and have practised
medicine in this area since. Do general practice and am (or have been)
industrial physician for coal mines of Republic Steel, J & L Steel and U.S.
Steel.

Have fine wife and two good kids, of whom I hope the boy will be at
Harvard College next year. My wife and I are active in the usual local
and hospital affairs. Hobbies: books, sports cars, model railroading, jazz
music. Designed and built sports car several years ago.

LEONARD ELIOT MARTIN

as

   

HOME ADDRESS: 217 Hazel Ave., Webster Groves 19, Mo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 611 Olive St., St. Louis 1, Mo.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Margaret Kelly, Jan. 6, 1951. cHILDREN: Scott, July 6, 1952; Margaret.
March 17, 1954; John, Aug. 13, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Editor, St. Louis Bar Journal; various offices, Kiwanis; secretary,
Washington University Law Alumni; president, Toastmasters.

MEMBER OF: Tuscan Masonic Lodge.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles for Washington University Law Review, St. Louis Bar
Journal; editor, Kiwanis Weekly Bulletin,

Now hear this —
I have a beautiful wife and three children, in whom there is mutual
love.

In the war, lieutenant senior grade, on USS Comfort, with various

duties, eventually second in command. (Kamikaze hit the ship.) Prac-
tised law since the war.

Hobbies: fishing, squash, chess, bridge.

698 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

THOMAS CROCKETT MARVIN +

 

HOME ApDbRESS: 1257 Kenton Rd., Deerfield, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Medical Association, 535 N. Dearborn, Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1936-1939, DECREES: A.B. 1939; M.p.H. (Univ. of Michigan),
1949

marriep: Arline Winkler, March 30, 1947. cumpren: Richard, June 16, 19515
Joel, June 17, 1955.

occupaTION: Public Health; associate secretary, Council on Medical Education
and Hospitals, American Medical Association.
OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Conference for Health Council Work, 1953-55.

MEMBER OF: American Public Health Association; American Society for Public
Administration.

PUBLICATIONS: “A Comprehensive Plan for Health and Hospital Services in Syra-
cuse, New York”; “Survey of School of Nursing Facilities in Massachusetts”;
“Hospital Utilization in Massachusetts, 1945-1955”; “Financial Relations Be-

tween Community Chests and General Hospitals”; “Relation Between Public
Health and Private Practice of Medicine.”

Since Jeaving Harvard 1 have lived in five different communities

working at as many different jobs. During World War Il, I served
four years in the Army Medical Corps (as a bacteriologist), two of

ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 699

these years in North Africa and Italy. Career-wise, I have enjoyed the
dubious satisfaction for the past five years of feeling that all my previous
work experience has been cumulative; that each of my earlier activities
has enabled me to do a better job at what Iam doing now. My present
work is aimed at improving the standards of training received by para-
medical personnel, such as laboratory and X-ray technicians, physical
and occupational therapists, etc.

In recent years I have been involved in projects dealing with the
economics of medical care—the effective use of hospital beds — the
efficient organization of medical services — all aimed at contribuung to
a better understanding (by the public and the professions) of medical
care prices and expenditures. Previous to that, I helped develop a
policy for more effective working relations between physicians in private
practice and public health personnel. Another satisfaction I have gained
from my employment in recent years has been the feeling that I was in-
volved in something very much in the “stream of things.” Incidentally,
these satisfactions represent a substantial portion of payment in kind.

In any case, our small family manages to live modestly as “flowering
suburbanites” on Chicago’s North Shore, participates in many com-
munity and church-sponsored activities that solid American conformists
are expected to take part in, and creates an illusion of enjoying it. In the
meantime, my wife wants me to join her in a course she is taking in the
new mathematics. She warns that life will pass me by unless I keep up
with modern education. I am about sold on the idea until I recall the
hard time | have multiplying and dividing fractions.

I manage to keep in shape with a game of squash or volleyball two or
three times a week. This enables me to hold my own with mv two
budding athletes. Speaking of athletics, I don’t share the same objection
as some of my educated friends toward adult-organized sports for
youngsters. I believe the kids get more out of the game if they are

coached properly; and parents need to pitch in with an occasional lesson
in patience and perseverance.

 

HOME ADpREss: 1033 N, Pleasant St. Royal Oak, Mich.
OFFICE ADpRESS: Oak Park Senior High School, Oak Park 37, Mich,



700 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

PREPARED aT: Watertown Senior High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEcREES: a.B., 1939; ep.m. (Tufts Coll.), 1941; Epp.
(Wayne State Univ.), 1957,

marRIED: Esther Y. Elby, Nov. 20, 1943. cuitpREN: Arthur, Jr., April 19, 1947;
Joan L., Sept. 27, 1950.

occupaTion: Senior high school principal.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Central Executive Committee, Royal Oak Teachers Asso-
ciation, 1956; senior high P.T.A. adviser, 1957-63; secretary, 1962-63, vice-
president, 1963-64, Rotary Club of Oak Park; chairman, Schools-College Re-
lations Committee, Michigan Association of Secondary School Principals,
1963-67.

MEMBER OF: National Education Association; Michigan Education Association;
National Association of Secondary School Principals; Michigan Association
v Secondary School Principals; Phi Delta Kappa; Rotary Club of Oak Park,

ich.

pusLicaTions: Doctoral dissertation.

In my senior year at Harvard I decided that teaching and education
should be my life work. During World War II, I was extremely fortunate
to spend the years 1942-45 instructing aviation cadets and officers in the
Army Air Force. Since I had a limited technical background, my teach-
ing specialty for the Air Force was administration and personnel. I
spent two pleasant years teaching at the Army Air Force Technical
School, Yale University. It was during this period in New Haven that I
made one of the most important decisions of my life— namely to get
married,

The postwar years found me teaching at Highland Park Junior Col-
lege, Highland Park, Michigan, and at the University of Detroit, Detroit,
Michigan. Also, during this period I resumed my educational and pro-
fessional training at Wayne State University, Detroit. (I had already
received the Fd.M. degree from Tufts after an A.B. from Harvard.)

During the Korean War I returned to the Army Air Force to train
technical instructors at Chanute Air Force Base, Ilinois. I continued my
doctoral studies at the University of Illinois, Urbana, Illinois. In 1953
I returned to the Detroit area to teach at Royal Oak Senior High School,
Royal Oak, Michigan. During the past ten years I have been a teacher,
guidance counselor, assistant high school principal and high school prin-
cipal, At present I am principal of Oak Park Senior High School, a
school of 1,320 students, grades ten through twelve. Most of our
graduates attend Michigan colleges. This year we have an outstanding
senior who is trying to decide between Harvard and M.LT. [ll be doing
a little recruiting.

For the past six years my wife has been a first grade teacher. Since
both our children are in school, school topics dominate the conversation
in our household. A few years ago both of our children attended Cit
and Country School, Bloomfield Hills, Michigan—a school for gifted
children, It is a unique school with an unusual program Studerss d

. ; . o
not receive grades but instead take achievement tests, Much emphasis
is placed on accelerated classes and creativity, Our daughter en
attending: Kingswood School for Girls, Bloomfield Hills, Michigan.

Our son is planning to attend the University of Michigan, Ann Arbor

Michigan. ’

A few summers ago our family took a trip to California,

i j Despi
fact that friends and relatives have been urging us to move o pite the

ut there, we

702 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

of a lieutenant in the Infantry leaves something to be desired, partic-
ularly during an active war in the European Theatre. I have no com-
plaint, however, returning to civilian life with no scars, three medals
and two children with three to follow.

For a brief period I worked with a paper company with head-
quarters in Boston. The opportunity to join Estabrook came in 1948
and | have not regretted this decision though at times life can be hectic.
With more luck than skill, I became New England sales manager and
in 1958 assumed the status and liability of a general partner, a position
1 still hold,

With five children in five different educational institutions, I am quite
familiar with the usual appeals for funds for raising teachers’ salaries.
Perhaps it pays to be sympathetic because one daughter has completed
junior college, one son is at Princeton and another son enters college
next fall,

Our summers are spent at Wianno on Cape Cod with most of the
family actively sailing one kind of boat or another. My own efforts
are concentrated on a forty-foot yawl which we race with fair results
and on which we cruise locally and to Maine. When the snow comes
we try to go to New Hampshire for skiing —usually a weekend
operation.

Because I have never learned how to say “No” gracefully, the Jast
few years have been extremely busy ones with lots of extracurricular

activity. They have been rewarding years with an increasing appre-
ciation of Harvard and the feeling of some small accomplishment.

MICHAEL FORD MAYER

    

HOME ADDRESS; 9 Inverness Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Spring & Mayer, 30 EF. 40th St., New York 16, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Walden School, New York, N.Y.

Years COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DECREES: $.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.B. (Yale Univ.),

MARRIED: Janet Claster, Aug. 15, 1943. cHiLpren: Joan Nettie, Aug. 12, 1946;
Arthur, May 20, 1948; Aline Lillie, May 10, 1951; Shelley B., March 6, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Attorney-at-Law; partner, Spring & Mayer, general practice of law.

OFFICES HELD: Executive director, Independent Film Importers & Distributors of
America, Inc. (IFIDA), since 1959; special counsel, French Society of
Authors, Composers & Publishers (SACEM), 1960-63, Performing Right So-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 703

ciety of Great Britain, since 1961; chairman, Westchester Division, American
Jewish Committee, 1957-59.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; American, Federal
and Westchester County Bar Associations.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Legal War of Ideas,” The Practical Lawyer, April, 1959;
“Trouble About Titles,” Publishing, Entertainment, Advertising Law Quarterly,
June, 1961; numerous articles, Bulletin of IFIDA, 1959-63.

My quarter century since graduation has been a happy one. I’ve been
pleased with a wonderful wife, four fabulous children, and an interesting
career. While my personal satisfactions have been substantial I retain
the deep concern that I’ve had since college years with the ever increasing
problems of a complicated and disturbing world.

Following college I had three grand years at Yale Law School, fol-
lowed by war years’ service with the Army Air Forces in the India-
Burma Theatre. The memories of these days have rapidly dimmed, so I
won’t elaborate for fear of distortion and exaggeration, a practice that
seems to increase with the passage of time.

I jumped into law practice in New York in 1946 with a large firm but
quickly cut down to size with a two-man outfit. Due to famly connec-
tions and long interest I gravitated into an entertainment practice with
emphasis on motion pictures, production, exhibition and distribution.
It’s been a fascinating and developing area.

1 was fortunate to be present at the right time and the right place when
a new trade association of foreign film importers was formed in 1959.
Since that time I have been executive director and general counsel of the
Independent Film Importers and Distributors of America, Inc., a vigor-
ous, assertive organization fighting the battle of theatrical film importers
on the American scene. We've been active in the areas of trade practices,
advertising, censorship and general promotional activity for the new
media ever since. It’s been, and remains, a fascinating experience.

Simultaneously I’ve gained the privilege of representing two of the
leading musical performing right societies in various dealings on the
American scene. These are the Performing Right Society of Great
Britain and the French Society of Authors, Composers and Publishers.
Interesting problems are involved in connection with both organizations.

My interest in religion has developed with the vears and I am now
happy to serve on Board of the Jewish Community Center of White
Plains. I do not accept the stereotyped picture that religion in the
suburbs is, of necessity, meaningless in content. I know no better anti-
dote to the excessive materialism of our time than organized religion
(whatever its faults).

Politically, ve had a Ball! Five times a defeated candidate (for Jus-
tice of Peace, District Attorney, State Senator twice and Surrogate), |
should be reconciled to my role as an unreconstructed JFK Democrat in
a Republican county but something just seems to say No. | plan to go
on fighting for our cause and enjoying it. :

With my rather active law practice, employment, home life and
numerous other activities (political, social, charitable) as well as mv
passion for long and frequent vacations, I find life full and fascinaniny.
I've a wonderful wife who shares every joy with me, and the kids se tar
have been nothing but pleasure.



704 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

One minor problem, there is still a world to worry about. I’m con-
cerned and deeply so about the grave issues of our day, about peace and
nuclear bomb policies, about communism and democracy, about racial
integration and the reality of our constitutional guaranties to people with
colored skins, and about automation and a host of other issues. I want
to help participate in the decision in these matters. I hope to continue
to be active in political and social organizations that share my aims and

objectives.

MYRON LEO MAYER

   

  

Home appress: 40 E. 66th St., New York 21, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 175 Lexington Ave., New York 16, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1936-1939, DECREE: a.B., 1939.
marriep: Nancy R. Mayer, March 27, 1941. CHILDREN: Sandy, Nov. 25, 1949;
Peter, Oct. 6, 1951.
occuPaTION: Real estate brokerage and management. .
Bronx House Eman-

OFFICES HELD: Board member, since 1951, president, 1955-58, .
uel Camps; chairman, Functional Committee on Camping, Federation 3
9

Jewish Philanthropies, 1958-60; president, 1959-62, treasurer, since 1962
Vacations for the Aging, Inc.; board member, Council of Jewish Federations
and Welfare Funds, since 1960; president, Central Bureau for the Jewish
Aged, since 1962; Delegate to White House Conference on the Aged, 1961;

sundry board memberships.

MEMBER OF: Sunningdale Country Club, Scarsdale, N.Y.
Since the twenty-five years following Commencement has been 4
longer and busier period than that preceding my matriculation at Har-
vard this seems a more difficult task than our opening English A theme
and I doubt that 1 am as well prepared as | was then. However, as

Fowler put it so succinctly, “Damn the syntax, full speed ahead.”
After a summer course in accounting | entered the real estate brokerage
and management business in New York, I did not lose touch completely
with the Commonwealth of Massachusetts as 1 took weekly trips to
Wheaton. This palled a bit after a year and a half and I married the
irl and found that it really is presence that makes the heart grow fonder.
We set up light housekeeping in a lighthouse on Columbus Circle for 4
long and pleasant honeymoon that was interrupted only twice, in 1949
and 1951, by the arrivals of our daughter and son respectively. After
several tentative expeditions into various political and charitable activi-

706 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

During sixteen years in this part of the country, have toured most of
the scenic areas west of the Rockies by auto, at least the highlights such
as Grand Canyon, Yellowstone, and others. Active sports: backpacking
in High Sierra, sailing. Most active hobby: amateur astronomy, pursued
with some gradually increasing equipment.

I see the Kennedy Administration as an organization of craven ap-
peasers. “Appeaser” has not, so far as I can see, been rehabilitated from
its state of disgrace in 1939 by any subsequent event of history. If we
delude ourselves now into regarding the present status of ideological war
as peace simply because there is shooting going on only in one or two
corners of the world and make concessions to try to keep it that way, we
invite further aggression as surely as did Chamberlain the year we
graduated. Kennedy had a moment of truth at the Bay of Pigs and de-
cided to run an invasion like a domestic political campaign: “Send over a
couple of bombers, and see how the public reacts.” NSK threw up a
first flimsy version of the Berlin Wall and JFK did... nothing. In
Laos JFK refused to back up our partisan friends who would have fought
to keep out the Communists and instead backed the “neutralists.” Result:
we are now fighting with our backs to the sea in South Vietnam, instead
of in Laos.

All during the spring of 1962 newspapers carried second page stories
of the Russian build-up in Cuba, and JFK denied it. One week before the
fall election he ‘“‘discovered” it was true, issued a lot of noisy orders to
the U.S. Navy and Coast Guard, neither of which ever boarded one
single Russian ship, and where are we? The Russians are still in Cuba,
NSK still has what he bargained for: a base close to South America, our
soft underbelly; communist commandos are concentrating on what is to
them the most dangerous country in South America, Venezuela, because
of its vigorous democratic administration, and it is a wonder Betancourt
has been able to survive as long as he has.

Meanwhile, JFK sends the U.S. Coast Guard against any Anti-Com-
munists who attempt commando tactics against Castro. I’m sure zhat
takes courage.

NSK broke the unofficial moratorium on nuclear tests with monster
explosions, then asked for a “treaty” to prevent anybody else making
any tests of that order. JFK obliged in the name of “peace,” and we have
a piece of paper signed by the Russians; but whose hands are tied?

The gentlemen cry peace, peace... .

If the alternative is nuclear holocaust, and I doubt it, who has more to
fear by death, those who profess the Judao-Christian belief in a life
hereafter, if they have the courage of their convictions, or those who say
that all there is, is the material things of this world?

If the former have become so greedy for their material things and com-
forts, their vaunted industrial superiority, that they are afraid to take
steps with the boldness necessary to protect them from an enemy quick
to take advantage of hesitation, it is not too hard to sce how they could
lose that very material wealth to which they cleave. Whether they will
also lose their own immortal souls may be the only unanswered question.
Would you rather live slave or die free?

Let us have no more appeasement,

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 707

JOHN FORSYTH MEIGS, JR.

 

BORN: May 4, 1917, Weston, Mass. parents: John Forsyth Meigs, Elizabeth
Hubbard.

PREPARED AT: Tome School, Port Deposit, Md.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938.
pep: Oct. 31, 1938, Nashua, N.H.

An active member of the Harvard Mountaineering Club, Meigs was in
his senior year with our Class when he died as a result of injuries re-

ceived while climbing at Joe English Mountain near Nashua, New
Hampshire. He was survived by his parents.

NICHOLAS MELLEN

F nee

   

HOME AbprEss: Box 714, Opa-Locka, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lumber Sales Warehouse, Inc, Box 47235, Miami, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Everett High School, Everett, Maas,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Marguerite P. Pierson, Oct. 27, 1066. cuttonen: Ronald Lee Carter,
Sept. 6, 1937 (stepson); Sue Ann, Oct. 29, 1846: Coni Lynn, Aug. 26, 1k

OCCUPATION: Sales manager and purchasing agent, Lumber Sales Warehouse, Ine.
wholesale hardwood and plywood distributors president, Miami Brokers, Ine.
lumber and plywood brokerage — carloads,

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and treasurer, Opa-Locka Optimist Club. 1a62 ob:
committeeman, Troop 304, Opa-Locka, Florida, Boy Scoute of Ameria.

708 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

MEMBER OF: Village Lodge No. 315, F. & A.M., Miami Shores, Fla.; Harvard Club
of Miami; Opa-Locka Optimist Club; Carriage Club; American Legion Post
No. 144; USNR (Retired).

My first few years after graduation were spent rambling. Two years
as an assistant football coach at Harvard; six months teaching sciences
at a private school in Rhode Island; and six months as an aircraft engine
inspector, U.S. Navy, Pratt & Whitney, East Hartford, Connecticut.

Upon the outbreak of the war, I enlisted in the Navy and was com-
missioned an ensign, USNR, without the benefit of Indoctrination
School. I couldn't even be classed as a ninetv-day wonder. My tour of
duty began in February, 1942, and ended with my honorable discharge
as a lieutenant on May 13, 1946. My tour of duty began as an ordnance
officer in the Port Director’s Office, Boston. I then served successively
as a gunnery officer in Trinidad, B.W.L, gunnery officer on an escort
vessel (PCE) in the Atlantic, and finished the war in command of an
amphibious vessel (LSM) in the Pacific. Except for my marriage in
1934, | came through the war unscathed.

After the war I spent four more years getting oriented. 1 worked in
the Boston area as a production foreman in a metal manufacturing
company for two years. A job as a brush salesman followed; and then a
year as an investigator.

Early in 1950 1 accepted a job in Miami, Florida, with my present firm.
This job grew into a position and it looks as though I shall remain here
unless outside forces upset the status quo in Miami. Although the tempo
ef building has slowed down, business still remains good. The big secret
is to avoid the legion of bankruptcies that have plagued us for the last
few vears.

My family has grown, My elder daughter will be ready for college
next year and will probably journey to New England for that episode in
her life. It looks as though I shall have to grind away for a good many
more years to satisfy the wants and whims of my daughters and wife.
Fortunately, my health remains excellent, as does my outlook. So I have
no fears and frustrations on this score.

_As a lifelong registered Democrat, the inconsistencies and contradic-
tions of the Kennedy regime have me completely confused. I hope
Kennedy knows more about the Cuban fiasco than I do, From the Miami
Front it looks like he blundered. At any rate he has awakened my

interest in politics to the degree that I shall participate in the next

campaign.

My interest in sports has gravitated to horse-racing and poker, with
an occasional unsuccessful parry at the stock market.

I Jook forward to the next twenty-five years, and hope they are as
kind as the last twenty-five.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 709

RICHARD JAY MELLMAN

On me irae cee

a

  

HOME ADDRESS: 105 Farley Rd., Short Hills, NJ.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Prudential Insurance Co., Newark, N_J.

PREPARED AT: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m, 1940.

MARRIED: Nancy Bordon, June 7, 1942, cHILpREN: John Albert, Feb. 15, 196;
Margery Ann, March 1, 1948; Robert Bordon, April 9, 1952.

HARVARD SON: John Albert Mellman, ’66.

OCCUPATION: Actuary.

MEMBER OF: Society of Actuaries; Actuaries Club of New York; Harvard Club of
New Jersey; American Jewish Committee; Fairmount Country Club.

Our three children are growing up fast and are a source of great
satisfaction. John, our eldest, is Harvard °66, lives in Lowell Hlouse and
shows signs of becoming a real mathematician. Marge, in high school, is
a lovely teen-ager, a folk music addict and likes to paint. Bob is our base-
ball player and musician, With the kids growing up Nancy has emerged
from the kitchen, is doing some substitute teaching and is studving for
her A.M. in English literature.

As to business, I have been with the Prudential since graduation, with
five years out for the Army. My Prudential career has taken our family
from Newark to Los Angeles for five years (1g50-54) and then back to
Newark again. I’m assistant actuary in our group insurance department
and have become expert in the employee benefits field. It's a demanding,
stimulating and satisfying job that keeps me on the go, mecting people
and doing some traveling around the United States and Canada, lve
been a fellow of the Society of Actuaries since 1yy8, have had papers
published in professional journals, and am active on a number of in-
dustry committees.

My principal hobby is gardening. Town one acre of New Jersey, on
which I try cto grow unusual shrubbery: among which is a young
Sequoia tree that is thriving as TE coax it toward maturity, Glenn Dale
azaleas are my specialty, Bridge and golf are two activities Ealw the to
spend spare tine at.

Politically ['m a moderate Democrat. In the first quarter of a century
out | have to adinic chat my wife has done the han's share of the com:
munity activities for our family. Ehope to do more in the next twenty:
five years,

710 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ANDRE JULES MENDELL

   

HOME ADDRESS: 219 Gravel Hill Rd., Smoke Rise, Butler, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Howse, Mead & Sons, Inc., 18 E. 50th St., New York 22, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: $.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Margaret Jane Wilson, Aug, 31, 1940. cHiLpREN: Andy, March 15, 1944;
John, Sept. 1, 1946; Patricia, April 16, 1950; Richard, Jan. 29, 1958.

occupaTION: British woolen jobber, president and owner.

OFFICES HELD: President, Woolens and Trimmings Association, 1958-60; executive

committee-man, St. David’s Episcopal Church, N.J.; Lay Reader, Episcopal
Church, Newark Diocese.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Smoke Rise Club, N-J.

Rerunning the last twenty-five years of my life and being concise 1s
taking all the living out of living but here goes, Upon graduation I en-
rolled at the Harvard Business School, managing to just hang on until
March of 1940. At this point appendicitis hit me and I decided not to
return to school after the operation. Instead I married Margaret Wilson
(Radcliffe ’39), an excellent decision/solution, and started to work in the
New York family business.

In November, 1940, the President declared a national emergency and
changed many lives and mine. Being a member of the New York
Organized Naval Reserve, 1 went on active duty for the next sixty-four
months — and grew up fast. Throughout the next few years and the
many duty changes — destroyers, P.C. boats, teaching at Destroyer-DE
School, attack transports —1 managed to stay alive and healthy, some-
times wondering how or why, until March, 1946, when as a lieutenant
commander I requested severance.

March, 1944, saw our first born and son, Andy; a midnight telephone
call to me in Norfolk, Virginia, was my introduction to fatherhood. No
further family developments occurred until 1946 when son John was
born, daughter Patricia came in 1950, and late arrival and aggressive
extrovert Richard came in 1958. The latter has revolutionized our
existence, including wearing us out, a pleasure we irrationally seem to
enjoy.

From 1946 to 1950 I had three employers and two homes. In 1947 we
finally moved to Smoke Rise, New Jersey, in the foothills of the Rama-
pos, where we still are, and in 1950 | rejoined our family business. Howse,
Mead & Sons, Inc., is a British woollen jobbing firm sclling cloth to

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT Fit

custom tailors and special order department stores throughout the nation.
I first became sales manager and finally in 1955 bought the business from
my mother. Owning and running one’s own business is not all it is
cracked up to be, but it is way ahead of any thing else. My work en-
tails office administration, sales and sales supervision, financial administra-
tion and designing. I travel — unfortunately too often without Pegs —
seven weeks a year in the United States and four weeks twice a year to
Europe/England styling new colors and ideas in cloth at the mills we buy
from. The latter is quite a challenge. I remember so often telling my
father that joining his business was the last thing I ever expected to do,
that styling was long-haired stuff, and now I am eating my words.

My outside activities are few but interesting. I continue to play tennis
(with greater hesitation and less speed each year) and as a Lay Reader
in the Episcopal Church often partake in religious services and activities.

Our eldest son, Andy, is now in college (he is as surprised as we), with
son John to follow on next year. Patricia is in eighth grade, and Richard
has just started to go to kindergarten. Pegs is now in search of an added
career now that she has more time. We are both looking forward to the
Twenty- -fifth Reunion, probably without the children, who will still be
in school. We hope that many old friends we have not seen for many
years will be on hand and trust that time has been kind to all. Possibly
they may still be able to recognize us with the picture!

EURIPIDES LOUIS METAXAS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 28 Conway St. Greenfield, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 57 Wells St., Greenfield, Mass,

PREPARED aT: Greenfield High School, Greenfield, Masa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, oecrnes: an, cum laude, 1939; aw. 141.
MARRIED: Aphrodite Janakas, 1959. cnituo: Lewis BE. 19ol.

OCCUPATION; Credit manager.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Greenfield Sehool Conmittee, ten years.
MEMBER OF: Masons,

After graduating, | went across the Yard to the School of Fulucation.
I received my Master's in Fducation in iggy and decided) to go inte
industry in order to secure a@ living w age.

Served in World War UH, EF uropean Theatre of Operations Returned

712 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

to my old job in 1946. IT was married in 1959; have a wonderful son,
and 1 am very happy.

ALFRED VAN CLEVE MEYER +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 620] Seminole PI., College Park, Md.

CHARLES APPLETON MEYER

sapiens

   

  

HOME appress: 1024 Gaywood Rd., Dallas, Texas 75229.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sears, Roebuck & Co., 1409 S. Lamar St., Dallas, Texas 75202.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.; Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pEcREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Suzanne Seyburn, June 15, 1940. cuitoren: Brooke Seyburn, May 22,
1942; Nancy Saltonstall, Sept. 18, 1949,

occupation: Merchandising; vice-president in charge of southwestern territory
and director, Sears, Roebuck & Company,

OFFICES HELD: Director, Sears, Roebuck & Company, since 1960, Allstate Insurance
Companies, since 1958, Gillette Company, since 1957, United Fruit Company,
since 1957, Republic National Bank, since 1961, Dallas Citizens Council, since
1960, Dallas Theatre Center, since 1960, Dallas Council on World Affairs, since
1960, Texas Research League, Austin, since 1961, Texas Retail Federation,
Houston, since 1960, Foreign Policy Association, New York, since 1960;
trustee, Texas Research Foundation, Renner, Texas, since 1961, Presbyterian
Hospital of Dallas, since 1961, Jarvis Christian College, Hawkins, Texas, since

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 713

1961; chairman, Latin American Committee of the Business Advisory Council,
1957-58, Advisory Committee Export-Import Bank, 1958; member, Latin
American Advisory Committee to the Department of State, 1959-62; director,
Harvard Alumni Association, 1955-58; president, Associated Harvard Clubs,
1961-62.

MEMBER OF: Civic Club and Brook Hollow Golf Club, Dallas; Racquet Club,
Chicago; Onwentsia Club, Lake Forest, Ill.; Shoreacres, Lake Bluff, IIL;
Brook Club, New York City; Harvard Club of New York.

The Tenth Reunion Class Report brought most of us up-to-date with
each other as of 1949, so I shall start from there. At that time I had re-
sumed commercial life with Sears, Roebuck & Company, as assistant to
the chairman of the board for Latin American operations, and we were
living in Highland Park, Tlinois, with one daughter, Brooke, aged seven.
Vocationally, I stayed in the Latin American division of Sears, Roebuck
until 1960, having moved to Bogota, Colombia, as president of Sears, Roe-
buck de Colombia in 1953, and having returned in 1955 as vice-president
in charge of Latin American operations. In 1949 we adopted our second
daughter, Nancy, and shortly after Nancy’s arrival I successfully failed
my physical exam for military recall to the Korean front. God bless
hypertension. In 1960 we moved to Dallas, still with Sears, Roebuck, as
vice-president in charge of the southwest, which runs from Wyoming to
the Gulf of Mexico. Brooke is graduating from Southern Methodist
University, having spent two years at Radcliffe, and Nancy 1s in board-
ing school in Virginia.

In short, in fifteen years since our Tenth, Sears, Roebuck has been a
challenging, fascinating, satisfying, constant denominator in our lives, It
has led us from Illinois to Colombia to Illinois to Texas. The children
have grown up and Suzie is faced, as are all wives and mothers, with im-
minent “retirement.” The last three plus years have been particularly
challenging. After fourteen years offshore and fourteen years of direct
and indirect involvement with the executive branches of our government
as it relates to Latin America, not to mention the executive branches of
the Latin American governments as they, im turn, relate to American
business, I find myself almost totally involved for the first time in the
community in which I live.

The years ahead inevitably for all of us will be more challenging than
the years just passed, and that is an awesome prospect. I sometimes feel
that all of us in this country are tending to react rather than think. We
certainly can complicate the challenge of the future in which clear
thought is far more important than reaction.

All of us are loosely bound together by an affiliation with Harvard. It
has been particularly satisfying to me to work both for the Alumni
Association and the Associated Harvard Clubs. The more I see of
Harvard the more I feel that today’s education is needed for our genera-
tion more than for the undergraduate. We can be proud of our alma
mater because without question and despite jokes to the contrary, she
carries a reputation for excellence throughout the world. To have gone
to Harvard is everywhere an important label.

—4 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

YER, JR. t

TS

  
   
 

me{AILING ADDRESS: 72-45 112th St., Forest Hills, Long Island, N.Y.

 

ROBERT FENTON MEYERS +

  
  

==<===4ILING ADDRESS: Bill Hill (Blood Street), Lyme, Conn.

IRVING SIMON MICHELMAN

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 7'5

HOME ADDRESS: 10375 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 24, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Budget Finance Plan, 6434 Wilshire Blvd., Los Angeles 48, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: $.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Shirley Barbara Stoloff, Sept. 8, 1940. cuitpren: Nancy Ann, Jan. 25,
1942; John Doland, Feb. 7, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Budget Finance Plan (diversified finance
and insurance).

OFFICES HELD: Former director and officer, several state consumer finance associa-
tions; editor, Advertising Forum of National Consumer Finance Association,
1950-60; graduate committee, Phillips Brooks House Association, since 1947;
former president, Benjamin N. Cardozo Lodge, B'nai B'rith, New York City,
1957; vice-president, International Student Center, Los Angeles, 1963; mem-
ber, executive committee, Southwest Regional Anti-Defamation League, 1963;
secretary, Hollywood Museum Lease Corporation, 1963.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; City Athletic Club, New York.

I met my lovely wife on a blind date in Paris in 1938. My wisest move
was to marry her shortly after graduation. My longest move was all the
way from New York to Los Angeles upon merging my eastern-based
business with a larger, public company headquartered in Los Angeles, in
1958. This move at least kept me on my toes in my middle years and
probably made all of our family more resilient. It also made me thankful
for Harvard’s intellectual and philosophical training upon which I could
draw during the difficult years of adjustment.

We are now very fond of California. Where else can you swim every
morning before a short drive to the office and sculpt in the open air all
year long? The first of these hobbies was started to rehabilitate my
back after a disc operation in 1961 and now I am usually good for a half
mile each morning in the twenty-five-yard pool of our cooperative
.apartment house. The sculpture consists of carving in marble and
alabaster — quite a step up from my college cartooning days, and rugged
exercise, too.

We live near the University of California campus and take advantage
of their amazing lectures, theatre, extension courses and general intellec-
tual ferment. We also help out at the International Student Center,
serving the 1500 foreign students at this remarkable school.

My wife is an accomplished artist and extremely valuable to the Reiss-
Davis Children’s Clinic where she ts a successful therapist with disturbed
children. My daughter, Nancy, is full of talent and temperament and
switched to the New York Musical and Dramatic Theatre Academy
after two years at Sarah Lawrence. My son, John, is at Brandeis, has
a superior personality to mine, and is thinking of architecture.

1 have worked in the finance business since graduation, except for a
short stint in the Navy, and have been all the way from a single office to
partial control of a fairly large, diversified chain. My work is interesting
and self-starting, but I have O'Hara reticetions about it all now and then,
for example, own-it-yourself versus the large corporation. Alsa, | envy
the men in useful public service, At any rate, | welcome the Twenty -
fifth for its admonition to be thankful for what we have. One guideline
from my New England education has alwavs seemed vahd to me —
cultivate intellectual curiosicy and a sense of humor,

ec CCL

716 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

CHARLES ROGERS MILES

 

HOME ADDRESS: Farm Street, Dover, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937.

Maaaixo: Jean Carpenter. CHILDREN: Edward R., Sept. 7, 1940; Charles Rogers,
Jr., May 13, 1943; William C., March 18, 1946.
OCCUPATION: Real estate.

memser OF: Dedham Country and Polo Club; Eastern Dog Club (president).

JAMES BROWNING MILES t¢

 

ibe ae

LAST MAILING aDpREss: 550 Washington St., Dedham, Mass.

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT W317

GEORGE CONLEY MILLER

    

HOME apprEss: 600 S, Greenwood, Columbia, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Conley-Myers Insurance Agency, 32 N. Eighth, Columbia, Mo.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936. DEGREES: A.B. (Univ. of Missouri), 1939; LL.B.
(Harvard Univ.), 1942.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Ann Nye, Sept. 12, 1942. cHitprEN: Cynthia S., Oct. 29, 1943;
Helen C., March 19, 1949; Betsy A., Sept. 12, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Attorney and general insurance — Partner.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club; Missouri Alpha Association; Phi Delta Theta.

WILLIAM BLACKALL MILLER

 

HOME aApDprREss: 3 Mount Merici Ave., Waterville, Maine 04901.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Colby College, Waterville, Maine.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. precreEEs: a.B., 1939; a.m. (Columbia Univ.), 148;
PH.p. (ibid.), 1961.

MARRIED: Margaret Koons, June 24, 1950. cHiLpREN: Charlotte Donaldson, Dec. 2
1955; Katherine Blackall, Dec, 29, 1959,
OCCUPATION: Teachings associate professor, Department of Art, Colby College.
OFFICES HELD: Fulbright fellow in Italy, 1950-51; member, executive committee,
estern Chapter, Archaeological Institute of America, 1952-56, Friends of Art
at Colby College, since 1961; director, Archives of Maine Art, since 1901; lay
reader, St. Mark’s Episcopal Church, Waterville,

718 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

MEMBER OF: College Art Association; American Association of University Profes-
sors; American Academy in Rome (fellow); Consumers Union; Waterville
Historical Society; P.T.A.

PUBLICATIONS: Book reviews and notes for professional journals; museum cata-
logues for Colby College Art Museum; on microfilm: “The Franciscan Legend
in Italian Painting in the Thirteenth Century” (Ph.D. dissertation) ; “Artists
Active in Maine in the Twentieth Century” (forthcoming) .

As I recall it, there never was any personal agonizing or family crisis
about what I wanted to do. At the time of graduation I had decided to
teach in the field of art, and in the fall of 1939 I accepted an opportunity
to begin. Subsequently, the major decisions in my professional life have
been where to teach and at what level.

As a faculty member resident in a dormitory at a private school for
bovs, I found myself abruptly and totally immersed in an educational
situation more bewildering and comprehensive than I had anticipated.
During that first year, what I was teaching was less of a problem than
finding my identity as a teacher. From my duties, colleagues, and pupils,
I learned much — both of yea and nay, and in regard to thee and me.
In the summers I went to school again, and after three years I could
imaginatively project a career for myself in secondary school teaching.

World War II postponed the immediate continuing of teaching and,
like others, I was drafted. My term in the Army was officially prepos-
terous — five months of listening to Morse Code at Radio School and
then to a microphone in an airport control tower; nine months at college
in Minnesota to study French language, history, economics, etc., and
then to Colorado and Burma as ground crew to a mule in an Artillery
outfit; shot at but not shooting; two rows of colored ribbons and two
stripes worn in mustering out formations only.

After shedding the uniform, I did a pinch-hicting job of teaching at an
art school and then attended another for the summer session. But before

the G.I. Bill had become law, I had decided to prepare for teaching at
the college level. In the secondary school setup as I had known it, there
was much that was extraneous to the teaching of art, and I wanted to
work more directly with the subject and specifically the history of art.
1 chose Columbia University for graduate study in order to be in New
York City (where 1 would not choose to live permanently). Graduate
work, as many find, proved to be an intellectual excitement from which
I hope I have not yet fully recovered, I met my wife at Columbia and
we were married in the chapel on campus after completing the pre-
liminaries for the Doctorate. We both were awarded Fulbright Fellow-
ships and spent fourteen months in Europe with the American Academy
in Rome as our base.

Upon return I was an instructor at Amherst College for four years
while Margaret taught in the Art Department at Smith. At Ambherst, in
addition to teaching, I assisted with the work in the college museum,
found myself involved with community meetings in the arts, and all the
while writing and revising a dissertation.

Eight years ago I elected to come to Maine to teach at Colby College.
The Down East State and the small promising college have provided
challenges and satisfactions. The Department of Art has grown and
moved into a new building with museum. I have inched up the academic

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 719

ladder, we have built a house, and find ourselves engrossed in community
and family activities.

Some attitudes 1 once held I have reversed or altered. I count myself
now a liberal Democrat and a more consistent churchman. As an aside, I
say that power, money, and social status do not interest me. The decision
to devote my professional life to teaching ] have never regretted, how-
ever,

For hobbies I work with my hands at carpentry and painting. I am
passably competent in lettering and calligraphy. I collect stamps illus-
trating architecture and building. I make block prints for Christmas

cards and superb tin cooky cutters. My wife is the gardener but I mow
the grass.

DAVID NEWELL MILLS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 24300 Locust Drive, Farmington, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cross, Wrock, Miller, Vieson & Kelley, 4200 Penobscot Bldg., De-
troit 26, Mich.

PREPARED AT; Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; 3.p. (Univ. of Michigan), 1942.

MARRIED: Julia Conner Ligon, June 6, 1942. cHmpDREN: Christopher Avery, July
19, 1943; William Joseph, Sept. 11, 1946; David Hartshorne, March 18, 1949;

Rebecca Lansdale, Oct. 4, 1951; Amanda L., Sept. 5, 1954.
OCCUPATION: Partner in law firm.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Sophie Wright Settlement, since 1955; member, Farming-
ton Township Planning and Zoning Boards, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Detroit Athletic Club; American, Michigan and Detroit Bar Associa-
tions.

PuBLIcaTIoNS: Articles in Michigan Law Review and Michigan State Bar Journal.

Spent three years at Michigan Law School, then three years in Army
Air Force as weather officer, mainly in Caribbean and Central America.
Since then I’ve lived in suburban Detroit and practised law continuously
with the same firm, specializing in tax, estate planning, probate, oil and
gas and general corporate work. My wife (from Maryland) and I had
five children (scientifically spaced all three years apart to nearest full
year) before we realized thar the population explosion is the most serious
problem facing the world today. We now advocate that the sixth and
all subsequent children of any family should be plowed under like the
excess supply of little pigs during FDR’s day.

720 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

My hobbies are coin collecting, listening to good music, photography,
skiing, mountains, covered bridges, golf, bowling, ping-pong and as-
tronomy. | travel extensively for pleasure, having been in all forty-eight
continental states at least three times and three of my children have
already been in them all. In economic matters, I’m a reactionary Re-
publican, fearing inflation, bureaucracy, excessive federal power and
regulation and government hand-outs, but I’m a liberal on civil liberties,
Negro rights, etc. In foreign affairs I’m very much a “one-worlder”
and a United World Federalist and regard our foreign policy as too

tough, feel arms control is vitally important and fear China more than
Russia.

LESTER CONRAD MILLS

    

HOME appress: 159 Columbia Ave., Athens, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: College of Education, Ohio University, Athens, Ohio.

PREPARED aT: Ida M. Fisher High School, Miami Beach, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: s.B., cum laude, 1939; A.M., 1948; Ep.D.
(Columbia Univ.) , 1960.

mararten: Estelle Morin, June 6, 1938 (divorced 1943) ; Adell Griffith, June 26, 1949.
CHILDREN: Yvette, Nov. 16, 1940; Marilyn Griffith, March 22, 1933 (m. George
Cicolani, June 4, 1955). cRANDCHILDREN: George Cicolani, Sept. 12, 1956;
Suzanne Cicolani, Oct. 23, 1958; Diana Cicolani, Oct. 29, 1959.

occupation: Associate professor of education.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant buyer of men’s sportswear, Mandel Brothers Department
Store, 1940-42; teaching fellow, Astronomy Dept., Harvard University, 1946-
48: instructor in mathematics and physics, Wheatridge High School, Colo.,
1948-51; head of Science Dept. and science instructor, Beverly (Mass.) High
School, 1951-56; instructor in physics and chemistry, Wheatley School, Old
Westbury, N.Y., 1956-58; instructor, Teachers College, Columbia University,
1958-60; associate professor of education, Ohio University, since 1960; fellow,
Science Manpower Project, Teachers College, Columbia University, 1958-60;
member, Policy Committee, National Science Teachers Association, 1962-64.

MemMBER OF: Life member, National Education Association and National Science
Teachers Association; fellow and life member, American Association for the
Advancement of Science; Central Association of Science and Mathematics
Teachers; Ohio Education Association; Ohio Academy of Science; Kappa
Delta Pi; Phi Delta Kappa; National Association of Biology Teachers.

pupicaTions: Modern High School Physics (co-author), 1959, Problem-solving
Methods in Science Teaching (with Dean),

¢ 1960, Ne ‘
Publications, Teachers College, Columbia University, ew York: Bureau of

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 721

The growing interest in public education in recent years has made the
rofession of education an exciting one. At the time I write this the press
is full of comments about our President Conant’s recent book. We
educationists must respond to his learned criticism as well as the criti-
cisms of many others. It seems as though everyone who has spent any
time in front of a desk in a classroom knows all there is to know about
education. Meeting this challenge is a most exhilarating experience.
For unadulterated fun, 1 recommend a month’s travel with your
grandchildren — no parents, just the youngsters. Their eyes, ears and
gentle hands explore many delights otherwise missed by adults. The
reawakening of observational powers induced by these curious tots has
been an outstanding pleasure, A most important feature of this adven-
ture is the limited responsibility: the noise ceases, the toys and games are
put away until another extended visit, and the grandchildren return to
their parents, but the memories of those weeks are precious. I envy the
great many of you who have yet to experience this for the first time.
After moving about a dozen or more times since college days, I am
finally on the verge of settling down. We are in the market for land and
an architect. Some hillside space overlooking Athens will soon be the
mecca for Georgie, Suzy and Diana while their father continues his
career in the Navy.

With my challenging job, a delightful family and Adell so proficient
in the many household arts and so adept in keeping me serene, I am
inclined to say that my life is as close to being perfectly happy as any
man ought to expect.

LEWIS HUNT MILLS, JR.

 
 

  

BORN: Sept. 28, 1916, Portland, Oregon. PARENTS: Lewis Hunt Mills, 714, Elinor
Lawrence,

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., magna cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Barbara Schefky, Dec. 27, 1946, Portland, Oregon. CHILDREN: Evelyn
Marie, Aug. 10, 1949; Barbara Leigh, Sept. 25, 1952; Sally Lewis, Dec. 4 1958,

DIED: Sept. 9, 1961, Portland, Oregon.

wipow: Mrs. Lewis H. Mills, Jr., 4004 Third St., Tillamook, Oregon.

After graduate school in Arizona, Mills worked in mines for a year
and then with a partner leased a quicksilver mine in Oregon. During

722 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

World War II he spent three years in the Army serving as a captain
with an engineer battalion at Leyte and Okinawa. Since the war he had
been in the logging business in Oregon. He was survived by his wife

and children.

   

Home apprEss: 5005 Woodside Rd., Baltimore 29, Md.

OFFICE appress: Eastern Products Corp., 1601 Wicomico St., Baltimore 30, Md.

PREPARED AT: St. Joseph High School, St. Joseph, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: s.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Chloe DeLong, Aug. 17, 1945. cHitpreN: Donald Kirby, March 27,
1951; Linda Elizabeth, Sept. 1, 1952; Marilyn Frances, July 22, 1954,

occupation: Technical assistant to chairman of the board, Eastern Products
Corporation, manufacturers of plastic and metal products for homes and
building trades.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1955, secretary, 1956, president, 1957, treasurer, Techni-
cal Conference, 1958, chairman, Program Committee, 1954, 1956, 1960, National
Technical Conference, 1959, chairman, Regional Technical Conference,
1963-64, Baltimore-Washington Section, Society of Plastics Engineers; man-
ager, 1951-54, 1956-57, 1960-61, program director, 1955, 1959, 1963-64, Radio
Station WBJC-FM; secretary, Akron Committee for Racial Justice, 1942-44;
chairman, Section on Specifications for Non-Rigid Plastics, American Society
for Testing Materials.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Institute of Chemical Engi-
neers; Society of Plastics Engineers; Audio Engineering Society; Alpha Chi
Sigma; American Civil Liberties Union; NAACP; American Society for
Testing Materials; Maryland Academy of Science.

PUBLICATIONS: Orthopaedic Appliances Atlas, “Plastic Materials,” American
Academy of Orthopaedic Surgery, 1952. Patents: Soilproofing; Producing
Seamless Cosmetic Gloves; Cosmetic Gloves; Flexible Resinous Replicas;
Producing Flexible Hollow Plastic Objects; Electroforming Molds; Multi-
Piece Molds; Molds (2); Motorized Traverse Rod Operator.

I spent 1939-40 at M.LT. studying chemical engineering, where the
close integration of departments and courses was impressive. Eye trouble
and finances forcing me to leave after a year, I rejoined the B. F. Good-
rich Company in Akron, Ohio,

My natural clumsiness resulted in a quick transfer from the analytical
Jab to the research department where the exciting world of polymer
chemistry gripped me at once. Unable because of the war to return
to a university, | organized a rubber course in the company, took

enced et pent tpi) edt 11 Tf ATL TINEA LEAL AEE SE ALN IH J .

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 723

courses at Western Reserve and the University of Akron, set up ¢
personal reading program and got the reputation of being a radica:
because of efforts to have the American Chemical Society take concrete
steps to improve the economic position of the chemist.

After synthesizing plasticizers, | turned to structure-property rela-
tionships, the work leading to electrical insulation for ships in Arctic
waters. Development of vinyl] latex-insulated assault wire led to synthe-
sis of new dispersing agents for emulsion polymerizations, and a crash
program on polyvinyl chloride insulation led me to the formulations on
which most of the thermoplastic building wires used today are based.

A business trip to Detroit made me an eye witness of the race riots
in that city and kindled a continuing interest in the relations between
races. As secretary of the Akron Committee on Racial Justice I found
out what a problem it can be to keep Communists of one variety or
another from taking over an organization.

In 1945 1 married Chloe DeLong, a sculptress, pianist and industrial
designer, then at Firestone. The next year we moved to Washington,
where I spent two years developing lifelike gloves for artificial hands.
This entailed electroforming molds, compounding plastisols, building a
small plant to produce the gloves cheaply and starting a polymer synthe-
sis program.

The medical department then sent me to Fort Totten, New York, to
build up a laboratory to work on the problems incident to supplying
medical material to the armed forces. Work on packaging, resistance
to vibration, low temperatures and impact drops involved stress analysis
and the design of test equipment.

Living near New York permitted me to study polymer science at the
Polytechnic Institute of Brooklyn and to engage in a part-time consult-
ing practice dealing with the processing, electrical properties and testing
of plastics. Our son, Donald, was born in 1951, just before we moved to
Baltimore, where I joined the Eastern Products Corporation. Here I
developed a process for manufacturing plastic tape for venetian blinds,

set up an injection molding shop, extrusion and dielectric heating in-
stallations, built a machine to make folding doors and most recently have
headed the design and construction of our new high speed facility for
continuously electrogalvanizing, bonderizing, baking two coats of paint
and printing on sheet steel in coil form. I managed the plastics and
quality control departments and later was assistant director of manu-
facturing before becoming assistant to the chairman.

About twenty years ago I determined to learn something about elec-
tronics, but finding the going rather sticky decided to employ the
methods of progressive education by taking up Hi-Fi. Encouraged by
Chloe, who has put up with wires, strange-looking speaker svstems and
the other paraphernalia of one who is really hooked — partly for love
and partly for sound —I have had an enormous amount of fun keeping
abreast of developments, studying feedback theory, designing amplifiers,
getting into acoustics and recording, even becoming a spare-time dealer
to facilitate the turnover of equipment.

This enthusiasm is what originally led to an association with WBJC-
FM, where in addition to preparing the Monday night programs I have
managed the wholly volunteer statf for most of the twelve years of its

724 HARVARD CLASS OF | 939

existence. Starting at a tme when Baltimore’s only good music station
was leaving the air as unprofitable, non-commercial WBJC-FM has
presented live and recorded programs conceived to be of public and
cultural as well as of musical interest every evening since September 15
1951. Keeping an unpaid group enthused for a period of years turns out
to be quite different from the more usual short term community project.
On the practical side, Hi-Fi led to my current work on automation,
machine tool and process control. Less constructively it has led me to
fill the basement with surplus rocket and satellite components and test
equipment.

Three years of country living convinced us of the social and edu-
cational advantages of urban life, so in 1958 our family, which had
grown with the births of Linda in 1952 and Marilyn in 1954, moved
back into an old neighborhood barely within the city limits, and we
started trying to do our bit to improve the schools. It seems to us that
desegregation in fact, with individual members of minority groups
distributed on the same basis as other —and with at least token distri-
bution to all areas, especially to the suburbs immediately — is essential
to the retention of urban values (and 1 don’t mean merely property
values),

1 am a Unitarian, and of predominantly liberal political persuasion.
After years of non-attendance, we returned to the church for the sake
of Sunday school—now I find myself quite interested in ontological
questions, a fund raiser and even member of a theological study group.

ee

FREDERICK CHARLES MINKLER, JR.

    

HOME ADpRESS: 247 Mill Rd., Pascagoula, Miss,

OFFICE appRESS: 816 S. Pascagoula St., Pascagoula, Miss,

PREPARED AT: Evanston Township High School, Evanston, III.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: ve Men DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1939; m.p., 1943.

MARRIED: Patricia Van Metre, Dec. 30, 1942, cripREN: ici : 12,
1944; Frederick Charles, 3d (Rick), June 23, 10470 poatricia Ellen wy, 2,
1950; David DeWitt, March 2, 1955. , ?

occupation: Physician, general practice in Pascagoula since September, 1947,

OFFICES HELD: President, Coast Counties Medical Society; former secretary, presi-
dent, 1963, Gulf Coast Clinical Society; president, Pascagoula Kiwanis Club,
1952; chief of staff, Singing River Hospital, 1955, 1963-64: senior warden,
St. John’s Episcopal Church, Pascagoula, seven years, ’

ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 725

MEMBER OF: Jackson County and Coast Counties Medical Societies; Gulf Coast
Clinical Society; American Academy of General Practice (regional director
for state); Southern Medical Society; American Medical Association; Pasca-
goula Kiwanis Club; Elks; American Legion; Longfellow House and Pasca-
goula Country Club.

After graduating from Harvard in the Class of ’39, I proceeded directly
to Harvard Medical School and four years of wonderful training for this
profession. Iwo months before graduation from medical school in the
Class of °43-A, I married Patricia Van Metre (Smith 741) at St. Mark’s
Episcopal Church in Evanston, Ilinois, on December 30, 1942. I had
postgraduate training at Presbyterian Hospital in Chicago and proceeded
to three plus years in the Army Medical Corps, fifteen months overseas
at base hospitals in England and France, and was discharged as a captain
in the fall of 1946. Had planned to return to Boston for further study
but was lured to a practice in the deep South which I agreed to do for
one year. Finding here a great need for competent medical practitioners,
and feeling that we were doing a greater service here than we might do
elsewhere, we lingered . . . and that was seventeen years ago! We have
watched great progress in medicine in this area and are currently
practising in a well-run, completely modern (three years old), 180-bed
hospital (of which I am chief of staff this year), serving Jackson County,
Mississippi.

Penny, our eldest child and only daughter, was born the day I was
shipped overseas, in Chicago. She is a sophomore at Smith and happily
has inherited both parents’ musical interests ... and finds Smith a
wonderful place to expand them through choirs, piano and “Smithereens.”
All three of our boys — Rick, sixteen, Peter, thirteen, and David eight —
were born here and have real southern accents only slightly watered
down by their midwestern heritage.

Having both grown up in suburban Evanston, Pat and I found the
smaller community most refreshing and have experienced here a rich and
rewarding life, minus so many of the complexities (as well as advan-
tages!) of the larger city. Cultural opportunities, however, are not lack-
ing ... there is a strong core of culturally interested citizens here, and
we are only an hour from Mobile or two and a half from New Orleans.
Providing quality education for the children we felt might pose serious
problems here but Penny went into Smith with a good foundation and
we hope the boys can do as well.

Despite the heavy and incessant demands made on a general practi-
tioner in a community this size (it has grown from 11,000 to 23,000 in
the seventeen years we've lived here), proximity to work allows more
time to be spent with the family. And on time off recreation of infinite
variety is at our doorstep. We all love music and I still enjoy the piano
as I did in undergraduate days. We're gradually rounding out a fine
family combo with Penny and me at the keyboard, Rick playing a mean
trombone, Peter the horn, David the drums and Pat lending enthusiastic
support and some vocals, Pat, Penny and I have long been active in the

church choir. We have an eighteen-foot power boat which takes us to
nearby islands for fine fishing or surf bathing or up the Pascagoula River
for fresh water fishing. The boys and I are avid hunters and try every-

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

726 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939
thing that comes in season. Pat and I enjoy golfing and haven’: .
outgrown the urge to play tennis occasionally. quit

Extra-professionally, ] have been active in our church affairs (bo

the yestrv and as senior warden), in Kiwanis and all medica] Organi
" iZa.

tions and have taken my turn at leadership in them all. Pat as
similarly in her counterparts. Each ume we begin to think we're oe erved
hump and should pull in our horns, we seem to be pressed into ser the
again... and, of course, we are happy to contribute what talents vee

may Possess, 4 . .
As for “religious convictions” — we are Episcopalians. Pat Brew up j
t n

that denomination and I was confirmed after moving to Pascagoula a d
have been an ardent advocate and Supporter ever since. We atten d
-hurch regularly as a family and believe in raising our family with Stron
siritual values, active in the life of the church to provide a growin
aderstanding of the faith and the great strength of the Christian tradi-
yn. We are sorry for those Christians who preoccupy themselves with
‘ticisms of manners, methods or personalities in the church and fai to
the greater significance of the true Christian heritage.
Politically,” we have for the most part aligned with the Republican
yp. Living in the deep South, we see sharply the need for a two-par
om here and have been greatly encouraged with the progress this
d has made in the past few years. We wish we knew the answers to
aroblems involving “Civil Rights” and the southern Negro, but we
lived in the South long enough to appreciate at least the sentiments
th sides and to see how vastly complex and turbulent will be this
I of transition.
lieve I've covered most of the areas outlined. Except for one
ring and eye-opening trip to pre-Castro Cuba in 1954, our travels
cen the “See America First” type and not too many of those,
in connection with medical meetings. We have become slightly
| co the mountain country of Western North Carolina and have
rwo-week family holiday there for the past eight summers. Do
be able to report more travel in the next decade though. On
'y ... 1 could expand ad infinitum. And on the variety of
- as well as amusing experiences encountered in this kind of
ractice, I could write a book . . . but I’m sure you don’t want
hat much.
‘fully fabricated by Spouse! Couldn’t wire him down long
do it! Pat Minkler).

th On

 

 

 

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 727

WILLIAM WARREN MINTON

 
  

woME abpRESS: 245 Rumsey Rd., Yonkers, N.Y.

orrice ADDRESS: Hunter College in the Bronx, New York 68, N-Y.

pREPARED AT: Middletown High School, Middletown, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; am., 1940;
pup. (Columbia Univ.), 1959.

marrieD: Olive Ware, Smith "44, June 30, 1955. cuitp: Alix Merrill, July 27, 1961.

occupation: Assistant professor of classics, Hunter College of the City University
of New York.

MEMBER OF: American Philological Association; Classical Association of the
Atlantic States; Association of American University Professors.

PUBLICATIONS: Two articles, “Homer’s Invocations of the Muses’ Traditional Pat-
terns,” vol. 91, 1960, “Invocation and Catalogue in Hesiod and Homer,” vol.
93, 1962, in Transactions of the American Philological Association.

WILLIAM GALBRAITHE MITCHELL, JR.

   

rhe ADDRESS; 27 Kenneth Rd., Marblehead, Mass.
RED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN
COLLEGE: 1936- : a 1939,
UNMARRIED, 6-1939, DEGREE: A.B, cum laude,

or ATION: Retired
ICK .
Mane eee’ Bank clerk, 1941-51: secretary, 1953-62.
La Sul Holy Name Society, Star of the Sea Church, Marbleh
ave Club: Classic Car Club; Boston Cat Club,

rad; Cadillac-

72 8 HARVARD CLASS OF 193 9

Upon graduation from Harvard in 1939 I thought I would be a
lawyer; this hope was disappointed when I flunked out of Harvard Law
School in 1940. From 1941 through 1951 I held minor clerical positions
in New York and Boston banks. At length I grew weary of banks and
studied shorthand in order to become a secretary. My most recent and
interesting job in this field was that of secretary to the Director of
Guidance at Boston College. 1 gave up work in 1962 in order to devote
all of my time to caring for my mother who is elderly.

The big event of my life was my conversion to the Catholic faith in
1958. This gave a whole new meaning to everything, to belong to the
church which Christ founded and which the Holy Spirit has preserved
unchanged in faith for two thousand years. My regret is that I did nor
find this faith as a young man so that I might have studied for Holy
Orders. 1 see now that the sole purpose of our existence is to give glory
to God by doing His Will, and that neither fame nor fortune, but grace
in the soul, is the thing to strive for.

DAVID ALAN MITTELL

 

HOME AppRESS: 15 Goddard Ave., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Davenport, Peters Co., 177 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pECREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Mary Louise Boss, June 28, 1941. cxHitpren: David Alan, Jr., April 18,
1943; Stephen Boss, April 7, 1945 (died Aug. 13, 1945) ; Jonathan Boss, Aug.
3, 1946; Betsey Gardner, Dec. 29, 1948; Nicholas Gifford, Oct. 9, 1953.

HARVARD SON: David Alan Mittell, Jr., ’66.

OCCUPATION: Wholesale lumber merchant; vice-president and director, Davenport,
Peters Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1942-63, vice-president, 1951-63, Lawrence R. McCoy &
Company, Worcester, Mass.; director, 1949-58, 1959-60, chairman, Scholarship
Committee, 1951-58, Harvard Club of Boston; treasurer, Associated Harvard
Clubs, since 1960; trustee, 1953-59, life trustee, since 1960, Roxbury Latin
School; trustee, Children’s Hospital Medical Center, since 1956, Dexter
School, Brookline, Mass., since 1956; corporator, Boston Penny Savings Bank,
since 1963; president, New England Wholesale Lumber Association, 1957-58;
director, since 1960, vice-president, 1962, 1963, National American Wholesale
Lumber Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Old Colony Harvard Club; The Country
Club, Brookline, Mass.; Duxbury (Mass.) Yacht Club,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 729

Harvard, it seems to me, is one of the most important — perhaps the
most important — thing which happens to most of us lucky enough to
have become associated with her in the intimate way that we as under-
graduates were. Having lived my entire life in close proximity to Har-
vard, as I look at her from the more mature viewpoint of middle life, ]
simply wonder more and more at her greatness.

The way Harvard contributes each year to the important careers of
professional men, artists, engineers, business men, scientists is well known
and appreciated. However, to me her most important contributions to
our country and to the world are her strong stands in matters of tolerance
and breadth; her welcoming of diversity, of experimentation; her great
liberalism in the face of smaller, narrower and passing forces, which do,
indeed, pass because of the breadth and greatness of Harvard and other
institutions like her,

It seems to me, as we all come back to Cambridge in 1964, we should
be keenly aware that under Dr. Pusey’s administration Harvard Univer-
sity is in a period of one of her finest flowerings, and that the serious
side of our Reunion has real import for these reasons.

From the above it must be quite clear that Harvard has played an
important part in my life these twenty-five years, but my satisfactions
elsewhere have been many. I love the wholesale lumber business, which
is one of those fast-moving, never-the-same type of things which repeats
and repeats new and different challenges, as Classmates Gerrity and
Shepard, who practise the same game, can attest. My own career reached
what appears to be a happy climax in June of 1963, when the oppor-
tunity came for me to buy into the 12-year-old firm with which I am
now associated, and where I hope to spend the rest of my life. Leaving
an association of twenty-four years had personal twinges, but a hand-
some and effective small firm like ours is the dream of all lumbermen,
and I am very lucky.

I do think keeping busy is good for all of us, and this I have managed
to do. Games of golf and tennis, some boating, the pleasant activities
involved in a growing family of four, keeping the chores done at home
and at an ancestral remodelled dairy-barn of my wife’s on the South
Shore, all these make for pleasantly busy days fifty weeks a year. The
other two hopefully are spent in Bermuda, with which we have fallen in
love.

Finally, I would not change from an earlier thought expressed in one
of these reports to the effect that it is the extremes in the world which
cause most of our troubles, and that if these can be avoided, we live,
and probably will continue to, in a pretty well-balanced nature. I would
have to add here, that compromise, however, is not always the right
answer just because it is not an extreme.

730 HARVARD CLASS OF 1 939

ARTHUR GRAHAM MITTON, JR.

 

HOME appress: 155 Chestnut Hill Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jordan Marsh Co., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935~1937,

marateD: Eleanor S. Van Kleeck, Jan. 30, 1942, cHILDREN: Joan Storey, April 16,
1944; Arthur Graham, 3d, May 29, 1946; Peter Carleton, Feb. 22, 1948.

occuPATION: Divisional merchandise manager, Jordan Marsh Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Jordan Marsh Company, since 1963; governor and House
Committee chairman, Kittansett Club, Marion, Mass., since 1958; director,
Boys’ Clubs of Boston, seven or eight years.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline; Algonquin Club of Boston; Kittan-
sett Club; Piney Point Beach Club; Beverly Yacht Club; Diners’ Club; Spee
Club.

After leaving college I went to work for Jordan Marsh Company,
where | am still employed. I joined the service with Battery A, ro1st
Field Artillery National Guard, and was serving my “one-year” at Camp
Edwards on Cape Cod at the time of Pearl Harbor. Our unit was
federalized and eventually I wound up in OCS at Fort Sill, Oklahoma.
After getting a Field Artillery commission, I was assigned as a com-
munications officer in the Third Amphibious Engineers’ Brigade — typi-
cal of the Army! In January, following Pearl Harbor, I was married to
Eleanor Van Kleeck and, until I was shipped out, she went with me
from one Army post to another. I departed from Ford Ord, California,
November, 1943, for the Pacific—and action — and Ellie left for Boston
—pregnant! My return to the U.S.A. happened to coincide with
V-J Day, August 14, 1945, in San Francisco, That was somze city to be in
on that day! My daughter, Joan, whom I saw for the first time that
August, was then sixteen months old! It was a strange sensation seeing
that little blonde curly-haired human being that was my daughter whose

_ only knowledge of me was from photographs! !

Since the war we've lived like any other typical American couple.
We added two sons to our family, and moved from a rented house in
Brookline to a larger one we bought in Chestnut Hill. We rented
summer houses until after the ’54 hurricane — and then came the biggest
gamble we ever took! We were able to buy a house on the tip of
Butler’s Point in Marion, Massachusetts (in a very badly damaged condi-
tion), for a song! It’s ina real “hurricane-prone” location — low land

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 731

with water on three sides of us — but we just love it! It’s a terrific place
—and it’s directly across the road from the Kittansett Club and golf

course (which, needless to say, I love!!).

So, as my 25th comes around, here I am: a divisional merchandise
manager at Jordan Marsh Company, as well as a director of the store,
plus the father of a sophomore at Converse College in Spartanburg,
South Carolina, a junior at Tabor Academy in Marion, Massachusetts,
and a freshman at New Preparatory School in Cambridge. So, all that
I've got at home these days is my wife, two large dogs, one cat and a

parakeet (my daughter is in South Carolina! )!!.

ADAM JOSEPH MLECZKO t+

   
  

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 11 Temple St., Arlington 74, Mass.

JOHN SPOFFORD MORGAN

   

HOME appress: 40 E, Tenth St., New York 3, N.Y.
OFFICE apprEss: Chase Manhattan Bank, 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, New York 15,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. peGrers: a.B., 1939; m.t.a. (Columbia Univ.), 1948.

OCCUPATION: Banking; assistant treasurer, International Department, presently re-
sponsible in Western European area, Chase Manhattan Bank.

732 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

MEMBER OF: University Club; Harvard Club; British Luncheon Club; Atlantique
French-American Association.

After one year of training at a bank, I entered the Navy and had sea
duty throughout the war on destroyer-size ships, seeing action in the
Pacific (Pearl Harbor and the Aleutians), Atlantic and Mediterranean.
1 then did two and a half years’ graduate study at Columbia from which
L received a degree of Master of International Affairs (!) in 1948. There
followed three years in the Federal Reserve Bank of New York (foreign
department) which loaned me in 1951 to the United Nations for fifteen
months to do economic reporung in Beirut, Lebanon for UNRWA,
set up in 1948 for Palestine Arab refugees, On my return I joined the
Chase National Bank which has sent me on extensive trips to and in the

Middle East and French-speaking West Africa.
Music and conversation continue to be my principal hobbies. My

convictions on the three subjects you mention are not immutable. As
time and | change, so do they.

PAUL EDWARD MORGAN

    

a ‘ r sense — saree
~ & * “
§ % x ‘
me j x
7} ' ¥
.

* 4

4

4
Sie .

ee
EET RAHEEM IRE IN Ie IMEI 8 AS EI
~ *
ke

 

HOME ADDRESS: Box 321, Scarborough, N.Y.
oFrice pppress: Standard Oil Company (N.J.), 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York,

PREPARED AT: Pawling School, Pawling, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, preres: s.B., 1939,

maRRIED: Nancy Hill, April 2, 1941. cuitp: James J., May 15, 1942 (m. Sally Ken-
nedy). GRANDCHILD: Lauren Louise Morgan, Oct. 4, 1962.

occuPaTION: Latin American adviser, Standard Oil Company (N.J.).

OFFICES HELD: Deputy director, Emergency Housing, Washington, D.C., Civil De-
fense, 1941-43; trustee, Scarborough School, 1948-54; director, Little League,

1952-54; member, PR Committees for fund-raising for schools, church charities,
civic organizations, etc.

meMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Sleepy Hollow Country Club; North
River Association; Public Relations Society of America; National Press Club;
US. Inter-American Council; National Foreign Trade Council.

When our Class graduated in Cambridge, I was already in Europe
with four other fellows seeing the Continent on a shoestring budget.
Two of us stayed in Europe and were caught in the beginning of World
War II, but managed to get out. Back in the States I worked for awhile
with a drug firm, a magazine, and then joined the War Production

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 733

Board in Washington, transferring later to the Office of War Informa-
tion where I was program manager, handling information campaigns
on the domestic front. I had enlisted in the Air Force and was called to
active duty in November, 1943. After the usual “training,” I received
a commission as a radar countermeasures officer and was with a B-29
outfit when the war ended.

Returned to my wife and son in New York and took a job with an
advertising agency, now called Cunningham & Walsh, where I was an
account executive. Left to start a public relations firm in 1949, where |
was a partner and chief cook and bottle washer. One of our clients,
Creole Petroleum Corporation, asked me to join them, which I did at
the end of 1956 — meanwhile, incidentally, having spent nearly two years
back in the Air Force during the Korean War with a B-36 squadron.
I spent the years 1957 to 1959 in Venezuela with my wife (our son was in
Hotchkiss and got down for vacations), both in Caracas and out in the
Lake Maracaibo region. In 1959 I returned to New York and transferred
to Creole’s parent company, Standard Oil Company (N.J.), where I have
been ever since, with some side assignments in Norway and Peru. At
the moment my work takes me to Latin America frequently.

My son, through no influence on my part, decided to attend Princeton.
He was married in his | junior year, and graduated, cui laude, in 1962
— demonstrating his conviction that married students do much better in
studies than their bachelor classmates. He is now working with Philip
Morris.

My wife, Nancy, carries the banner for the family in community
activities, forever being involved in hospital work, charity drives, etc.
I have been rather quiet on this front in recent years, spending more
time with golf and lately with platform tennis, a wonderful winter sport.
To demonstrate my love of sports, I managed to become co-owner of the
Thomasville, Georgia, baseball team which successfully lost money for
two years and which we sold to the Dodgers— lucky Bums. I have
also been able to lose some money in the theatre, being stung twice on
Broadway shows. Should have stuck with Lerner and Bernstein! But at
least the stock market has been kinder.

Most people don’t believe I majored in economics at Harvard, for
apparently the Keynesian influence didn’t rub off on me. I still tend to
vote Republican, except when I feel otherwise. But I think JFK is doing
a good job in the face of tremendous odds. Believe me, I see them all the
time in Latin America. I hope he keeps up the good work.

734 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

MORLEY MORGANA

°

      

HOME ApprESS: 735 Delgado Drive, Baton Rouge, La.

OFFICE ApDRESS: Gramor Chemicals, Inc., 2000 N. Fourth St., Baton Rouge, La.

PREPARED AT: Detroit University School, Grosse Pointe, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935--1939, DEGREES: A.B., 1939; A.M., 1940; PH.D., 1942,

MARRIED: Sally Stone, 1937 (divorced); Margaret Parrish, 1949. CHILDREN:
Morley, Jr.. Aug. 31, 1939; Andrée, Nov. 16, 1944; Nina, Nov. 29, 1949;
Frances Abigail, July 25, 1951; Lewis Smart, Sept. 8, 1941 (stepson) ; Stephen
Smart, Nov. 18, 1943 (stepson).

HARVARD SON: Morley Morgana, Jr., °65.

occupation: Chemist; research director, Grant Chemical Company; vice-president,
Gramor Chemicals, Inc.; president, Southern Land Products Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Registered Patent Agent.

PUBLICATIONS: Chemical articles in Journal of American Chemical Society, Ind,
Eng. Chem.; book review — Journal of American Chemical Society; chapter,
Book on Technical Editing; minor patents relating to Napalm.

During the major part of the war period worked with Professor
Louis F. Fieser on the Napalm development. Subsequently employed as
research chemist by Ethyl Corporation in Detroit. ‘Transferred to their
laboratories in Baton Rouge, Louisiana. Ultimate position, associate di-
rector of patent division. Resigned to devote few years to managing
family land company. Currently associated with Grant Chemical Com-
pany as research director, from which has developed the Gramor Chemi-
cals, Inc., of which I am part owner, manufacturing specialty organic
chemicals — “Glamor Chemicals for Industry.”

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 735

OMER ROLAND MORIN

ingests mst sesso aS eR Hema

     

  

HOME ADDRESS: Wellington Heights, Avon, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: North House, University of Hartford, West Hartford, Conn. 06117.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937,

marrieD: Muriel Fontaine, April 24, 1946. cumpren: Craig, June 17, 1948; Jacques,
Feb. 17, 1951; Clyde, March 1, 1952.

occupation: Personnel director, University of Hartford.

PHILIP EDGAR MORIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 54 Alba Rd., Wellesley, Mass. 02181.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 19 Congress St., Boston 9, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Weston High School, Weston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1947;
pIPL. (Bentley School of Accounting), 1951.

marniep: Catharine Ellenore McNicol, Sept. 8, 1945. cuitpreN: David Peter,

Sept. 24, 1946; Christopher Alan, Sept. 8, 1949; Jeanne Catharine, Sept. 17,
1952; Michele LeClerq, June 15, 1954.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Kiwanis Club of Boston, Camp Allen for Blind Girls, Inc.;
Town Meeting Member, Wellesley, Mass.; member of the Board of Massachu-
setts, U.S. Supreme Court, U.S. Court of Military Appeals, U.S. Tax Court.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Judge Advocates Association; Maugus Club;
Nehoiden Golf Club; Ancient and Honorable Artillery Company; American

Arbitration Association (for over six years) ; Harvard Club of Boston; Kiwanis
Club of Boston.

736 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Because of Captain Lawrence Bixby’s sincerity in his presentation of
the Ethiopian campaign in 1935 (“Gentlemen, we are witnessing the
opening of the second world war!”) most of those of us in Mil. Sci. I
were convinced that the military should form a serious part of our educa-
tion. And because my father was an active member of the Army National
Guard I naturally enough became a “Guardsman” soon after graduation,
and thus found myself in the first of the troopships bound for the Pacific.
From New York to Australia, to New Caledonia, to Guadalcanal (1942-
43), Bougainville (1943-44), Levte Gulf and Cebu (1944-45), Burias and
Tinian (1945), and home, finally, in August, 1945. Returned to pick up
the past and complete my legal training.

Sixteen years of active practice of law have in every way, on each
succeeding day, convinced me mine was, for me, a good choice. Per-
haps I would be wealthier in worldly goods were I to serve only the
lucrative clients, but I have always felt there are some things one can
and should do without thought or expectation of monetary reward. One
does realize, however, that sometimes the voluntary work does not pro-
duce the money for college tuitions.

If one recognizes calmly that into each life some rain must fall, adver-
sity, failures, and personal tragedies assume a more bearable mien.
Perhaps these past twenty-five years have by some alchemy of philosophy
welded my political and religious convictions together. I believe in God
and in His charity, but I also believe God helps those who help them-
selves. So I hold to the creed of helping those who cannot help them-
selves, but forcing those who can to fend for themselves. Therefore, |
must call myself a conservative, probably a “state’s righter,” certainly an
advocate of “home rule” and adversary of the “let George do it” rule.

FORBES MORSE

 

HOME appress: 535 E. 86th St., New York 28, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Fountain Valley School, Colorado Springs, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937.

MARRIED: Jane Turner, 1960. cHiLD: Adele, May 19, 1947 (by previous marriage).

Spent the years of World War Il building PT boats and designing
aircraft instruments and/or aircraft instrument installaions in New York
and later in Los Angeles.

mma

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 737

In 1950 I founded and later became president of Electrono-Mec In-
strument Corporation, plant located in New York City.

A first marriage in 1942 ended in 1950. Married a lovely lady, Jane
Turner, in 1960. My youngest of three stepsons graduated from Har-
vard in 1962. My daughter, Adele, aged seventeen, is presently un-
committed to a college career, Our home in New York overlooks the
East River. Weekends and vacations are spent afloat aboard our yacht
or on a Connecticut farm.

Yachting has been my principal avocation. Cruising and races in the
waters between Santa Barbara and San Diego on the West Coast, and
between the St. Lawrence River and Key West on the East Coast, have
‘been spiced with two races to Bermuda and a cruise in the Mediterranean.

While my classmates are revelling in their 25th Reunion “exercises,” I
shall be, for the third time, attempting to win the Bermuda Race with
Blithe Spirit, hopefully with Dinwiddie Smith, ’39, aboard.

ROBERT HOLDEN MORSE

a

 

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Russet Rd., Glastonbury, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B, 1939; s.M. (Rensselaer Polytechnic
Inst., Hartford Branch), 1960.

MARRIED: Wynona Leete, Sept. 12, 1942, cutipren: Jonathan Leete, March 28,
1944; Robert W., July 20, 1946; Lucy K., Dec. 11, 1947; William H., July
27, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Requirements engineer, aircraft engine manufacturer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Glastonbury Town Planning and Zoning Commission, since
1959; cubmaster, Pack 158, Glastonbury, 1957-59,

MEMBER OF: Hartford Symphony Chorale.

After a year studying math at the University of Michigan, I started
work at Pratt & Whitney Aircraft in the machine shop, and after some
months working in various departments, ended in the service depart-
ment. While stall in training as a ficld service representative and ten
days after marriage, | was dratred into the Air Force. My military experi-
ence was as a maintenance enginecring ofticer for a B-24 Squadron

rimarily in New Mexico and in England. Following discharge in 1945,
P rejoined Pract & Whitey Aircraft and for almost htteen years worked

738 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

in a variety of jobs in the service department. Most of this time was
spent as an assistant to the technical supervisor. In an engineering com-
pany, working closely with engineering is essential; consequently, in
1957, | started back to school to get a Master’s degree in engineering
at the Hartford Graduate Center of Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute.
Completing the work in 1960, I transferred into the sales department as
a requirements engineer, My work is with engine concepts that might
be used from five to twenty years in the future. Job is to let govern-
ment agencies know what types of power plants we can make for a
given requirement and to keep the company aware of what the govern.
ment would like to be able to do. Aircraft engines are an interesting
business, and I have thoroughly enjoyed my work in it.

Although my life has not been family centered, my wife and chil-
dren have been a wonderful source of satisfaction and pleasure. My
eldest son is a freshman at Farlham College and in two years two more
children are expecting to enter college.

Politically 1 remain a Democrat, much concerned about the solution
to the nuclear dilemma that confronts the world, As long as machines
and men are not perfect, the present reliance on nuclear strength can
only lead to eventual catastrophe. Knowing our Achilles’ heel we must
work to reduce the possibility of destruction.

Culturally, 1 am still in debt to the Harvard Glee Club, having sung
for many years in chorale organizations, the latest of which is the
Hartford Sy mphony Chorale.

HENRY TILFORD MORTIMER

 

HOME appreEss: Tuxedo Park, N-Y.; 530 E. 86th St., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Clark, Dodge & Co., Inc., 61 Wall St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

MaRRIED: Katharine Drexel Van Pelt. cHiLpReN: Henry Tilford, Jr., Aug. 12,
1942; Victoria, Oct. 28, 1946; Helen Suydam Cutting, Jan. 29, 1948 (step-
daughter).

HARVARD SON: Henry Tilford Mortimer, Jr., 64

occupation: Investment banking; vice-president and director, Clark, Dodge &

., Inc.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, New York; The Brook, New York;

Tuxedo Club; Madison Square Garden Club; "Pilgrims Society ; English

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 739

Speaking Union; American Arab Association for Commerce and Industry;
Bucks (London); The Travellers (Paris); Royal and Ancient Golf Club
(St. Andrews, Scotland).

1939-40: Corporation Trust Department, Bankers Trust Company,
New York. Army of the United States, 1940-45; sergeant, rorst Cavalry,
1940-41; second lieutenant, Cavalry School, Fort Riley, Kansas, 1941, first
lieutenant, Second Cavalry Division, 1942; captain-major, Ninth USS.
Armored Division, 1942-45; lieutenant colonel, AUS — discharged active
dutv, December, 1945; lieutenant colonel, Reserve, 1946-50.

Bank of New York: 1945-48, Credit Department, Business Develop-
ment Department.

Clark, Dodge & Company: 1945-6o (firm incorporated 1960); invest-
ment advisory department, foreign department, partner, 1954.

Clark, Dodge & Company, Inc., since 1960— vice-president and
director.

EDWIN BARTLETT MOSELEY

   

HOME appRrEsS: R.F_D. 1, Shelburne Falls, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kendall Co., Griswoldville, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936, 1937-1939. DEGREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Ruth Mary Langdale, Sept. 6, 1942. cHitp: Phyllis Ann, July 10, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Textile finishing, office supervisor.

MEMBER OF: Franklin County Industrial Management Club; Mountain Lodge,
A.F. & A.M.; Shelburne Grange No. 68; American Radio Relay League;
American Legion Post No. 43.

After graduation I worked for the Walworth Company from 1939
to 1942, in supervision-clerical work in the plant office. In September,
1942, | was married to Ruth Mary Langdale. We have one daughter,
Phyllis, born in 1948, and now in her second year of high school.

I entered the U.S. Army in December, 1942, and was discharged as
staff sergeant in December, 1945. My outfit was the 342d Armored Field
Artillery. 1 had one year of foreign service in Europe, where I received
a Bronze Star.

On being discharged from the service, I went to work for the Kendall
Company, Griswoldville, Massachusetts, as cotton finishing department
head and am now in the planning room, supervising a branch of the
order department and balance of stores.

740 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

We have owned our present home in Shelburne, Massachusetts, fo
five years. My interests are amateur radio (Ki1HNJ), gardening anc
fishing. Church affiliation is Episcopal. I am a member of Trinity
Fellowship of Shelburne Falls, and a registered Republican.

J

-
.
Be
: ‘

 

HOME ApprEss: 77 Whitewood Lane, Rochester, N.Y. 14618.
orFice appress: Medical Dept., Kodak Park Works, Eastman Kodak Co., Rochester,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: $.B., 1939; M.D. (Univ. of Rochester), 1945.

MARRIED: Irma Smith, April 22, 1948. cHtLp: Anne Elizabeth, April 28, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Physician, Eastman Kodak Company.

MEMBER OF: Rochester Academy of Medicine; American Medical Association;
New York State and Monroe County Medical Societies; Rochester Pathologi-
cal Society; Medical Staff— Genesee Hospital; Industrial Medical Associa-
tion; American Industrial Hygiene Association (Western New York Section) ;
Society of Sigma Xi; New York Athletic Club; Rochester Torch Club; Har-
vard Club of Rochester; Rochester Canoe Club; Rochester Curling Club
(president); Grand National Curling Association; Ontario Curling Associa-

tion.
PUBLICATIONS: Several scientific papers on the investigation of the renal circula-
tion; one on the physiological effects of heat.

After graduation I spent another year at Harvard taking further work
in the biological sciences, and then went on to the University of Roches-
ter School of Medicine. Medical school was interrupted by a bout with
tuberculosis which, at that time, was almost an occupational hazard for
medical students. April, 1943, found me back at medical school which
was then on a wartime accelerated program. Upon graduation, I con-
tinued my postdoctoral medical training for another four years. During
this time I met and in April, 1948, married Irma Smith in New York
City.
On completion of my residency training I returned to Rochester where
1 entered the field of medical research, In the ensuing two and a half
years I was Buswell Fellow in Urology Research and Life Insurance
Medical Research Fellow at the University of Rochester, I published
four scientific papers on the renal circulation and received the Elmer
Hess Prize for original research given by the Northeastern Section of

~eptiwe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 741

the American Urological Association. In April, 1950, our daughter,
Anne, was born.

Having had no active military service during World War II, I received
the usual greeting from the President and a commission as captain in the
Army Medical Corps shortly after the Korean conflict began. In July,
1952, 1 began my tour of active duty and spent the next two years as
assistant urologist at the U.S. Army Hospital, Fort Knox, Kentucky.
Termination of this assignment brought the realization that however in-
teresting and otherwise rewarding medical research may be, it is finan-
cially most unrewarding.

On release from military service in 1954, I joined the Medical Depart-
ment of the Eastman Kodak Company. The practice of industrial medi-
cine is most stimulating. The field is young and challenging, and Kodak
has been one of the pioneering institutions in the field of occupational
medicine. An industrial physician is many things — physician, surgeon,
toxicologist, administrator, and trouble shooter, to mention a few. I en-
joy my work and have every intention of remaining in this field.

Our travels have included a tour of England in 1949, and in the summer
of 1960 seven weeks of travel through France, Switzerland, Austria,
Germany and England. In June, 1962, we moved into a new house which
we planned and built. Any hopes that we may have had for travel in the
immediate future have been postponed until we recover from the financial
shock of homebuilding.

Three years ago I bought an Explorer class sloop and we enjoy sail-
ing during the summer months. In winter I try to do a little skiing on
the weekends but confine my activities to the less precipitous slopes. In
1961 I helped to organize the first Curling Club in the Rochester area.
This fine old Scottish game enjoys great popularity in Canada and is
becoming increasingly popular in the United States. I am currently presi-
dent of the Curling Club and a member of its board of directors.

As for politics, I am still a registered Republican, though I’m not quite
sure why. I am completely independent when it comes to voting. I
voted for Kennedy in the last Presidential election, and unless there is a
drastic change in my point of view (or his) I will support him in 1964.

My wife and I are lifelong Episcopalians and are communicants of St.
Mark’s and St. John’s Episcopal Church. Anne will be confirmed this fall.
She is fast becoming a young lady and is in the eighth grade at Columbia
School, a girls’ school here in Rochester. In short, | am happily married,
have a fine daughter, enjoy my family, am independent in politics, and
happy in my work ..

11 ili ida indhaintlelete cae Reet a re

742 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HENRY SIDDONS MOWBRAY

 

HOME ADDRESS: Washington, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Washington Depot, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Romford School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; B.aRcH., 1942.

MARRIED: Margaret F. Twichell, June 28, 1947, cHILDREN: Burton Twichell, July
14, 1952; Katharine S.. Dec. 29, 1953.

OCCUPATION: “Architect, self-employed.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; New Haven Lawn Club; Waterbury
Club.

After graduation from architectural school, I spent three years in the
Army Engineers, mostly in the South Pacific. I started working i in the
field of archivecture, first in New Haven where I married in 1947. From
1954 to 1959, we lived in Washington, D.C., where I practised architec-
ture untl returning to Connecticut. I now have my own small office in a
small community and we find our life a very pleasant one.

Our two children are both in Rumsey Hall School and they had their
first trip to Europe this past summer.

RICHARD BACHELDER MUDGE

clewemoe a

ey
7

  
 
 

HOME AND OFFICE appress: R.D. 2, Vergennes, Vt.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mase.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: 6.R., 1939; a.m, (Stanford Univ.), 1950.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 743
marnieD: Nina Ragsdale, Oct. 29, 1940, cuiupren: Richard Ragsdale, May 2, 1945,

Kia, June 17, 1947,
occuraTIoNn: Translator from Russian into English.

ERNST WEIDEMAN MUELLER +

- ae EE OE SLE LILI NE EE

    

. be. -
é, = j

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 2310 Ardleigh Ave., Cleveland Heights 6, Ohio.

JAMES ROBERT MUENGER

 

HOME appRESS: 26 North Ave., Beacon, N.Y. 12508.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Texaco, Inc., P.O. Box 509, Beacon, N.Y. 12508.

PREPARED AT: Jesup W. Scott High School, Toledo, Ohio,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: S.B., magna cum laude, 1939; s.m., 194].

MARRIED: Mary Tuttrup, March 25, 1944, CHILDREN: Elizabeth Anne, Dec. 11, 1946;
Phoebe Jane, Aug. 5, 1950; Richard Lewis, Sept. 19, 1956,

OCCUPATION: Research associate.

744 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

WILLIAM LEO MULCAHY, JR.

    

HOME apprEss: 33 Circuit Rd., Winthrop, Mass.

OFFICE appress: 24th O.S.1, 529 S. LaSalle St., Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; m.E. (Mass. State Coll.).

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Supervisor, U.S, Government, Department of the Air Corps, Office of
Special Investigation.

MEMBER OF: Elks; Cottage Park Yacht Club,

Since graduation my life’s work has oscillated between teaching school
and doing work of an investigative nature. The investigative efforts of
my life have been divided between Uncle Sam and private enterprise.
From 1939 to 1941 | taught high school, from 1941 to 1944 I served as a
special agent, F.B.L. in New York and also in Haiti and Mexico, From
1944 to 1946 I served in the Army, ETO, in the capacity of a CID agent.
1946-48, back to New York with the F.B.1. 1948-50, protection manager,
Jordan Marsh Company, Boston. 1950-56, special agent, National Board
of Fire Underwriters, New York City. Back to the government during
1957-58, this time with the Treasury; place of assignment in Philadel-
phia, Pennsylvania.

It did not take me long to tire of the monotony of service with the
Internal Revenue, and I finally resolved to take another fling at teaching.
But after giving it a go for five years in high schools in and about
Boston, I have reached the conclusion that this work is more unreward-
ing than investigative work. The really unsatisfactory aspect of this
work lies not so much in its impecunious character, but more in the
generally low image which the public and especially the children hold
of the teaching profession. And when longshoremen, barbers, plumbers,
bulldozer operators and others of a meager background can make up-
wards of $10,000 while a school teacher handling 150 to 200 kids daily is
lucky to make $7,500, then you can’t really blame the youth too much
for the inferior position they ascribe to teachers and their profession.

I did not really intend to use these pages to launch out in a diatribe
of this type, nevertheless, it is this status factor more than any other
which has moved me to return to Uncle Sam at a much better salary,
chance for an earlier pension, and a reduced chance of getting ulcers by

ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 745

ing to teach French and German grammar to a bunch of kids who
would be better off learning a trade.

In addition, I now have more time for reading than I have had before,
because I have been relieved of the responsibility of correcting papers
after work. So, let me say that I am satisfied — for the present anyway.

WILLIAM EMERY MULLIKEN

    

HOME ADDRESS: 1118 Tucker Rd., North Dartmouth, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1018 Tucker Rd., North Dartmouth, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Governor Dummer Academy, South Byfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEGREE: s.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Alice Knight Baker, June 24, 1939. cHiLpREN: Susan Knight. June 1. 1941
(m. Peter G. Crone, Aug. 29, 1962); Peter Baker, Jan. 21, 1944; William
Emery, Jr., March 13, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Education; headmaster, Friends Academy.

OFFICES pet: Director, Massachusetts Association of Independent Schools, since

961.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New Bedford; National Association of Independent
Schools; National Reading Reform Association; Massachusetts Association of
Independent Schools; Massachusetts Association of Independent Schools and
Colleges.

PUBLICATIONS: Privately printed book of verse titled For Lovers Only.

Career: Began teaching in Connecticut in the fall of 1939. Spent three
years in one school, then moved to another in the same state to act as
headmaster during the war years. Next tried one vear in New York
and found expenses not commensurate with a teacher's salary. Moved to
Belmont for the next seven years of teaching. While in the area was
somewhat unique in being the only male den mother. Balked at having
to wear a skirt in the April roth parade, so was fired. Appointed to
present position in 1953 and am extremely content.

Family: Susan, married to one of my ex-students (no machinations
involved); Peter, sophomore in college and a budding tennis pro; Bill,
Jr., senior in prep school and a mechanical genius according to his mother.

To round out, we've had the usual assortment of cats, dogs, mice, rats,
rabbits and a donkey. Only the last was forbidden the use of the living
room, though he made it once.

Travels: Maine and Florida. The first is God’s country and we get

746 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

there every year. Have been to Washington, D.C., too, but only during
Republican administrations.

Hobbies: Boating, which means cruising with kind friends. This
activity seems to have a pattern of three days and two nights aboard.
Possibly indicative of something. Do a bit of golf and tennis also. ;

Politically, I am an Independent; socially, I am anti; my religion is
Unitarian. This reminds me that we were fortunate in having Dana
Greeley marry our daughter, as he had first, of course, married us.

Finally, though it seems to be the vogue, wouldn’t swap my wife for
any other. She is tops!

     

GEORGE FRANCIS MURNANE, JR.

HOME AbpRESS: 19-8] Cedar Swamp Rd., Glen Head, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lazard Freres & Co., 44 Wall St., New York 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N-H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MaRRIED: Mary McDonnell, May 2, 1957. CHILDREN: George Francis, 3d, January,
1958; Alexandra, June, 1960; Marianna, January, 1963.

OCCUPATION: Partner of investment banking firm, Lazard Freres & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Director, trustee, governor and occasionally officer of various
business, charitable, educational and social organizations.

MEMBER OF: Bond Club; Kappa Beta Phi; Lunch Club; Racquet and Tennis
Club; Links Club; Piping Rock; Meadow Brook, Nissequoque; Beaver Dam,

i.e. normal complement of professional and social golf, fishing and shooting
clubs.

Afraid any sketch of mine is on the dull side. Four and a half years
of Army after graduation, similar probably to everyone else but with
the added interest of covering a good deal of North Africa, Sicily, Italy
and Western Europe, and the receipt of those decorations more indica-
tive of having been around than any testimony to gallantry on my part.
Then to work in Wall Street which has every fascination: varied and
challenging work, grand people, and financially most rewarding. The
only problem in the latter connection is that no matter what the increase
in income, either my tastes, desires or a combination thereof has an
undeviating ability to outstrip said income.

Having become a “family” man probably later than most, this added
“interest” keeps me young — in all but appearance — and leads me to

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 747

the conclusion that if I am as fortunate in the next twenty-five years as
in the past, Pll be an awfully lucky guy.

DESMOND MILBURN MURPHY

    

Ase TIRE MOT aR at ncaa

HOME ADDRESS: 10 Monroe P1., Brooklyn 1, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tiffany & Co., 727 Fifth Ave., New York 22, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1938, 1939-1940. DEGREE: a-B., 1939(41).

MARRIED: Ann Donaghy, July 22, 1963.

occupation: Work for treasurer of retail jewelry firm.

MEMBER OF: American Legion; Reserve Officers’ Association; Harvard Club of
New York; English Speaking Union; Society of Friendly Sons of St. Patrick
of New York; Montauk Club of Brooklyn.

After finally getting my degree from Harvard College in June of 1941
I was drafted into the Army in August as a private. My army career was
rather varied. Among other various jobs I was a machine gunner, tank
driver, motorcyclist, blacksmith. I became a translator and interpreter
of German after a ten-month schooling at the University of Michigan.

Following the war I gave up my plans to study medicine and went to
work for the American Machine & Foundry Company at their main
factory in Brooklyn for about two years, Later I had a variety of jobs
including that of a hardware, vacuum cleaner and sewing machine sales-
man.

In September, 1950, I was recalled into the Army for the Korean con-
flict. Highlights of this episode of my life included a three-month
Arctic expedition to Greenland, and a four-month stay in New found-
land with the Army Engineers.

After release from the Army in the fall of 1952 I went to work for
Tiffany & Company, New York jewelers, where | am still presently em-
ployed. This was interrupted in 1961-62 by still another army call-up at
the time of the so-called Berlin Crisis. The Army Reserve has been a
hobby and avocation since the end of World War UL. Tam presently a
major in the Army Reserves.

Travels have been extensive including Furope, Near and Far Past,
Africa, Caribbean area and, counting mibtary travels, Arctic regions.

Married rather late in lite, July, 1963, to be exact. Procrastination
scems to be a lifelong view. T have tried golf bur can’t work up much

748 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

enthusiasm for it, Ice skating, swimming and shooting still find me ar

active participant. Consider myself conservative politically. Religion
is still a mystery to me.

EUGENE FRANCIS MURPHY +

   
  

LAST MAILING ApoRESS: Loring Place, R.F.D. 2, Yorktown Heights, N.Y.

PAUL JAMES MURPHY

JR Fr erates anteman

BORN: June 5, 1917, Charlestown, Mass. PARENTS; Timothy Francis Murphy, Mary
Callahan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., 1939; ED.M. (Boston Teachers Coll.),
1940,

marriep: Andrea A. Sullivan. catLoren: Paul; Stephen.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Xavier Murphy, 734,
pieD: Aug. 21, 1958, Boston, Mass.

Paul James Murphy taught for two years before his service with the
Air Force. He was a weather observer for the oth A.F., 21st Weather
Squadron and also with General Patton’s Third Army. After the war
he spent a year as a substitute teacher at Boston Latin School and since

then had been on the faculty of the Newman Preparatory School in
Boston. He was survived by his wife and children.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RALPH BUTLER MURPHY +

 
   

SG ADDRESS: 1509 Malvern St., Towson, Md.

MORTON MYERBERG +

ING ADDRESS: 39 Dolphin Rd., Newton Center, Mass.

  

SYLVAN EDWARD MYERS, JR.

is

      

rss: 2530 Columbus Blvd., Coral Gables, Fla.

750 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

oFFice appress: Wometco Enterprises, Inc., 400 N. Miami Ave., Miami, Fla.

PREPARED at: Maury High School, Norfolk, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

marRieD: Jane Friedman, Aug. 10, 1940. cHiLpREN: Cathy, May 6, 1943; Bruce,
April 23, 1948,

occuPATION: Business executive and member of board of parent company of a
public company; specifically concerned with diversification; head of large
concession and automatic vending business.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and board member, National Association of Con-
cessionaires; chairman, Concession Committee, The Theatre Owners of
America; member of board, Anti-Defamation League; vice-president, American

Jewish Committee; member of board, Jewish Family Welfare Service; presi-
dent, Cigarette Vendors Association of Miami.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Miami; Coral Gables Country Club; Economic So-
ciety; National Association of Automatic Merchandisers.
PUBLICATIONS: Stories for trade publications.

Upon graduation I worked at Filene’s in Boston on their training
squad for a year. 1 took a vacation in Florida and determined that South
Florida was the only place to live — and that it was one of the few fron-
tiers left in the U.S. and that it presented opportunities not available in
Yankeeland. 1 came to Miami and went to work for Wometco Theatres
as an accountant in 1930. Wometco at the time owned a chain of movie
houses.

In August of 1940, my life took a change for the better and I married
Jane Friedman of Newton Center, Massachusetts. Jane had been a
steady sweetheart during college days. We moved to Miami. In 19q2 I
was commissioned in the Naval Supply Corps and was sent back to Alma
Mater for training. Upon graduation I went to a subchaser base in North
Carolina and then aboard an APA with duty in the Pacific. Our ship,
the APA-108, traveled the gamut of the Pacific — Solomons, Philippines,

Marshalls, Iwo, Okinawa, etc. After the war we ferried Occupation
troops into Japan and China, China was particularly interesting and it
was obvious then that the country was slipping into Communist domina-
tion, partly because of the ineptness of our policy and because of the
weakness of Chang’s negative program.

After the war and in early 1946, we returned to Miami and I went back
to work for Wometco Enterprises. In the years that followed I helped
build up the company’s concession business, handled building expansion,
construction, etc. In 1959, Wometco Enterprises became a public com-
pany and by now was operating about thirty theatres, four television
stations, many concessions, a large automatic vending business, both
Coca-Cola and Pepsi bottling plants. 1 help with diversification and run
the concession and vending business. We have enterprises in the State
of Washington, North and South Carolina, Georgia, Florida, Nassau and
Panama and will be well represented in the New York Fair. We also

own the famous Seaquarium here in Miami. I am vice-president and a
member of the board of the parent company. ;

1 usually vote Democratic and consider myself by that enigmatic labe
a progressive moderate. My hobbies are all sports which I avidly follow

— golf, travel and reading. I enjoy my family immensely and we have
wonderful vacations together. My social and religious convictions are

concerned with human relations in society and how to develop out of this
life a happy, peaceful existence in a democratic society where the dignity

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 751

of the individual is paramount. Philosophers have stated that there have

been no basic changes in metaphysics or human relations, in a thousand
years. 1 would like to see them proven wrong.

WILLIAM WASHBURN MYRICK

    
     

  

HOME ADDRESS: 850 Park Ave., New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Washburn & Gray, 36 W. 44th St., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concerd, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939(40).
UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Law.

After leaving Harvard College, I attended various law schools before
being drafted in 1942. My Army career consisted of various jobs in the
Army Postal Service here and in Northern and Western Africa.

On returning, I went back to my old job at Washburn & Gray. I re-
main a bachelor, keep myself fairly busy and still play bridge and sail.

J. STANLEY NANTS, JR.

  

i
7
} “
go B gh”
Whi ean lt

peterpan NT ato espe EER

   

HOME appress: 3 Harrington St.. Hillsdale, NJ.
OFFICE aAppResS: Abbott, Merkt & Coa, 680 Third Ave. New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT; Kemper Military School, Boonville, Mo,

752 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREES: S.B., cum laude, 1939; M.F.A. (Princeton
Univ.) 1948.

mareteD: Carolyn Tucker Morse, June 12, 1941. cHitpren: Sandra Victoria, Dec.
25, 1946; Katherine Barbara, Sept. 30, 1951; Jay Stanley, 3d, Nov. 14, 1958.
occupation: Architect (specialty: department store structures, shopping centers) ;

Tegistered in New York, New Jersey, Connecticut, Pennsylvania, Maryland
and the District of Columbia.

OFFICES HELD: Commander, Naval Reserve Surface Battalion 3-20, Brooklyn, N.Y,

MEMBER OF: Navy League; Militia Association of New York; Naval Reserve
Association; Naval Institute.

The line of direction set in sophomore year has remained dominant: ,
Architecture. The two years following graduation were spent under
the lively, stimulating influence of Jean Labatut at Princeton. There
followed two years in construction, defense housing and Yards and
Docks in the Navy Department. A Navy commission returned me to
the Yard for six months of Communications, then sent me to the venera-
ble, distinguished USS Salt Lake City until 1946, giving me a long and
far-ranging look at the Pacific world. This survey was later further
extended by a tour as communications officer aboard the large seaplane
tender USS Pine Island, 1951-53. Meanwhile, I had been serving my
apprenticeship in several New York architectural offices and had
achieved my registration, After Korea, I returned to my present asso-
ciation with the architect-engineer firm of Abbopt, Merkt & Com-
pany. Over the years, as projects have required, registration has been
extended from the District of Columbia to Connecticut. My activity
professionally has been almost exclusively in the commercial field, de-
veloping projects for many of the best-known department stores in the
East. A present project is helping to establish Macy’s in the camp of
the “enemy,” New Haven. Architecture remains as fascinating as when
it first exercised its attraction, but the envisioned activity has changed
from design to coordination and administration, not as a matter of
interest but of practical necessity.

Turned “salt” by World War II, ’'ve maintained a lively interest in
the Navy and remained active in the Reserve, recently as a surface
battalion commander, and presently as a large group CSO. Naval per-
sonal associations have almost always proved rewarding and the diverse
activities of the Navy broadening. Naval interest has also extended in
a number of directions: history, maps, oceanography.

Marriage to a lively, nonconformist product of Smith, set out upon in

1941, has been an eventful voyage on unpredictable courses, with mostly
fair winds and lots of fun. Three of the events are now readying re-
spectively for college, high school and kindergarten, with the attendant
problems of establishing and maintaining values, and of being enough
but not too much.

A three-mile daily walk and a bit of cycling, skiing and swimming
keep me in working order. A shop that will repair most things and make
a good many, and an HO train layout fill in the spare time, with an
occasional model project for punctuation.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 753

HUMPHREY NASH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 97 Ferry Lane, Barrington, R.1.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 732, Slater Bldg., 390 Main St., Worcester 8, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Hawken School, South Euclid, Ohio; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1942.

marrieD: Katherine McCartney (divorced 1948); Mary Feeney. CHILDREN: Chris-
topher Singerly, Feb. 4, 1942; Humphrey Haydon, Feb. 27, 1943; Jennifer K,
April 2, 1958; Cedric C., Nov. 20, 1959; Tabitha A., May 15, 1961.

occuPATION: Lawyer; corporation officer/director.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York.

Until recently, for some twenty years after law school, I tilled the
fertile fields of private tax practice. Most of the last decade was spent
in the fascinating environment of Saudi Arabia and the Middle East.
A bout with polio, however, has led me to reduce the pressures of my
commitments and return stateside where I am now busy in the manage-
ment of sundry family enterprises.

From the perspective of ten years’ residence abroad I can only report
deep apprehension about the trend of social and economic events on the
domestic scene. Symptoms of maladies rampant elsewhere are visible
here. That ravening, power-lustful monster, tyrannodemos lex, some-
times also known as Big Brother, is loose amongst us, feeding already
upon the carcass of our economic freedoms. Will personal and political
liberties be next upon its insatiable menu? How I abhor the cynical
demagogues and their warped, clever pseudointellectual accomplices who
have uttered the incantations of Statism and Egalitarianism to unleash
this nightmare!

154 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

JAMES I FRANCIS NASH t

 

LAST MAILING AboHESS: 303 Just Pkwy. Bradford, Pa.

LFONARD KOLLENDER NASH

 

HOME AvoRESS: 1] Field Rd, Lexington, Mass.

uFFICE avpREss: Mallinckrodt Chemistry Laboratory, Harvard University, Cam-
bridge, Mass,

PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: s.B., 1939; a.m., 1941; pH.p., 1944.

Marriep: Ava C, Byer, March 3, 1945, cHitpren: Vivian, Feb. 6, 1947; David, Jan.
21, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Professor of chemistry, Harvard University.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi; American Academy of Arts and
Sciences.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous books and technical articles as follows; The Atomic-
Molecular Theory, Harvard University Press, 1950; Plants and the Atmos-
phere, Harvard University Press, 1953; Elements of Chemical Thermody-

namics, Addison-Wesley, 1962; The Nature of the Natural Sciences, Little,
Brown & Company, 1963.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 755

LOUIS NEILSON, JR.

 
  

HOME ADDRESS: Unionville, Pa.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pECREE: s.B., 1939(40).

MARRIED: Katherine Pell. cHiLpREN: Louis, 3d, Princeton °64; Clarence Pell,
Princeton 66; Madeline B., St. Timothy’s School; Carol Kane, five years old.

OCCUPATION: Surveyor; land developer.

WALTER PHILIP NEUMANN +

LAST MAILING appRESS: 4050th USAF Hospital, Westover AFB, Mass.

75 6 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

JOHN NEVINS |

  

HOME ADDRESS: Timber-Till, Marlboro, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Information Agency, American Embasssy, Tunis, Tunisia.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Frances Merrick, March 9, 1946. cHiLp: John Lawrence, Feb. 8, 1952.

occupaTION: Foreign service officer, U.S. Information Agency; public affairs officer
American Embassy, Tunis.

MEMBER OF: Middle East Institute; National Audubon Society.

?

After graduation I joined the staff of the Putney School, Putney,
Vermont, as “assistant athletic director,” a catch-all title for a variety
of jobs and chores ranging from coaching soccer and helping run stu-
dent work projects to following some fifteen horses during the long
winter vacations. I improved my education by learning to ski, ride
horseback and square dance and by serving as adviser to the school
magazine. During the summer months I learned how to build a house
and subsequently was co-leader of two student trips to the western
United States, Canada and Alaska. My wife was a student but it wasn’t
until after Bennington College had prepared her and the war me to
assume adult responsibilities that we were married.

After a stint with the Vermont Highway Department pending a turn-
down by Navy Flight because they said I was color-blind, which is
ridiculous, I enlisted in the Army for $21 a month, slightly less than I
had previously been able to earn. After boot camp and OCS, Tennessee
maneuvres and final training, 1 went to England as a platoon com-
mander with the 474 AA (AW) self-propelled battalion which became
the pride of Bridgewater, Somerset. Thence we landed at Utah Beach
on D-Day and participated in the five European campaigns including the
Bulge, winding up somewhere near the Elbe River. After service as
security officer in Verviers, Belgium, ten glorious days on the Riviera
and some months as town commander of the charming village of Beer-
felden near Heidelberg, I returned home and was mustered out with the
rank of captain —and promptly got married.

I tried managing a book department in a Brattleboro, Vermont, store
for a year during which we lived at the old homestead. About the time
it became apparent that this was not a viable occupation for a family man
word came from roommate Larry Campbell that former Widener assist-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 757

ant director Ike Walton was in Washington looking for people to
serve in various capacities overseas. Next thing we knew we were in
Port au Prince, Haiti, I as director and wife as English teacher at the
Haitian American Institute, a bi-national organization designed to
further mutual understanding. To such we seem to have made some
contribution since my wife became one of the few women to be dec-
orated by the Haitian government and her “Chevalier” citation did
indeed say that she had made such a contribution.

After Haiti came a Washington assignment followed by foreign
service tours from 1951 to 1958, in Morocco and Lebanon, as public
affairs officer at the former, and cultural affairs and public affairs at the
latter. (For the uninitiated these titles indicate responsibilities in informa-
tion and cultural fields involving press, films, radio, library and exchange
of persons programs designed to interpret American foreign policy and
American institutions to foreign audiences.) From Beirut we returned
to USIA headquarters in Washington where I served successively as
desk officer for the Near Eastern area, personnel officer for the Near
East, Africa and South Asia, and policy officer for the Near East and
South Asia. Our last year at home was spent on a professional/sabbatical
assignment to the Army War College at Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania,
which proved to be a personally enjoyable and professionally useful
experience. After graduation I was assigned to the Embassy in Tunis
and here we are.

Apart from professionally generated interest in Near Eastern and
North African politics, societies and affairs, I have developed and main-
tained interest in ornithology (yes, bird-watching to you), the historical
geography and other aspects of the Crusades and the Arthurian legends.
We have been fortunate in being able to travel quite a bit. Favorite
places which come to mind are Jerusalem, Cyprus, Petra in Jordan, the
Crac des Chevaliers in Syria, Tafraout in southern Morocco and a
certain mountain top in the Lebanon called Ainab. Color photography
of castles and Roman ruins has become another hobby. My lady’s in-
terests have turned to Early American furniture and other antiques, the
cathedrals and chapels of the Mediterranean area, oriental rugs and a
collection of old crosses. We share a liking for 17th and 18th century
classical music. However, for relief from nervous tension the lady turns
to choral and organ music while old dad seeks Dixieland and honky
tonk pianos. In contrast to what Toynbee might call the archaism of
the parents, young John shows signs of being a mechanical genius or
electronics wizard. This should prove something about heredity and
environment but probably does not.

Our long-range goal is to live in Vermont again before we are too
old to enjoy it.

It is a long walk from Tunis to Cambridge so we will be able to
reune only in spirit. For this reason I conclude with salutations and
best wishes to the Class of ‘39. Long may it wave.

758 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

PETER HOLLINS NICHOLAS

RES ngs

    

  

HOME ADbRESS: Jericho Road, Syosset, N.Y.

oFFice appress: $.S.C. & B., 575 Lexington Ave., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938.

marrieD: Mary W. Sprague, Aug. 6, 1942. cHmpren: Mary W., Jan. 11, 1945;
Susan C., March 19, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Advertising, marketing research, associate research director.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Charles W. Hoyt Co., 1957-62; associate research
director, Benton & Bowles, 1947-57,

MEMBER OF: A. D. Club; Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club; Harvard Club of New
York; B.B. & B. Society.

I spent five years in the Army (Infantry) from 1940-1945 and was
married in 1942. After the war I went into the advertising business where
I have been ever since, I like the business a great deal, particularly the
market research end.

[am fairly active in community affairs and at present am on the board
of trustees of an incorporated village. I sing in the Episcopal church
choir in our community. The choir director suffers me because my wife
and children sing very well.

We live in the house where I was born. It’s a lovely house although
larger than we need, particularly now that the children are away at
school and we are alone except for two silly Scotch terriers.

Basically my political leanings are moderate Republican, although I
voted for Kennedy because I thought he’d make a better President than
Nixon. I still believe I was right, but I’m not very happy with the
present administration. Let’s hope the choice in 1964 and 1968 won’t be
so limited.

We are looking forward to the Reunion but are worried that the two
girls, one at Wellesley and one at Milton, will still be in school and
won't be able to participate. This would be most disappointing.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

759

  

HOME ADDRESS: 2349 N. Cassady Ave., Columbus 21, Ohio.

OFFICE AppRESS: Marble Cliff Quarries Co., 2100 Tremont Center, Columbus 21,
Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; m.p.a., 1941.

MARRIED: Nancy Kaufman, June 19, 1943. cHILDREN: Susan, Oct. 4, 1947; Michael,
Feb. 24, 1950.

OCCUPATION: President, Marble Cliff Quarries Company, crushed stone, lime,
concrete, black-top, etc.

OFFICES HELD: Second vice-president, Metropolitan board, YMCA, since 1961,
Columbus Industrial Association, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Rocky Fork Hunt and Country Club; Columbus Club; City Club.

Married in 1943; then spent two years in South Pacific with the Navy.
Came out as lieutenant, Supply Corps. Settled in Columbus working for
family company. Presently concerned with raising two fine children,
especially concerned because of what appears to be a growing tendency
on the young-uns’ part to take life easy, We enjoy a fairly small circle
of close friends and are far from being in the social whirl, We are
fortunate enough to have a cottage in Canada where we enjoy, if pos-
sible, a month in the summer, sailing, camping, fishing, loafing. F rankly,
would be hard put to think of a better life, with challenging business
and wonderful family.

WALTER BRIGGS NOBLE
ee rg 3 2

760 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HOME ADDRESS: 2366 Woodrow Way, Green Bay, Wis.
orFice apprEss: C.A. Lawton Co., De Fere, Wis.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: $.B., 1939,
UNMARRIED.

occuPaATION: Accountant.

After graduation I returned to the Middle West and, except for the
war years, have been here ever since. Before World War II, I became
a so-called ninety-day wonder at Northwestern University in Chicago,
then went on to Communications School at the U.S. Naval Academy
Postgraduate School in Annapolis. The entire war was spent as a com-
munications officer on two destroyers, one in the Atlantic and one in the
Pacific. On the latter, we visited just about every island and experienced
just about every disaster short of sinking. I came through with some
grey hair but not a scratch.

Since returning to civilian life it’s been rather uneventful but healthy
pursuing the quiet enjoyments as a bachelor. J am an accountant for
C.A. Lawton Company, manufacturers of machinery sold to the paper
and plastics industries throughout the world.

JOHN HARRISON NOLAN

RY SILA OES or RRO ROUTE
eT Hee ‘

. - ae

Ro ea » as
tr 2 " :

     

HOME ADDRESS: 1950 S.W. Market St. Drive, Portland, Oregon.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Susan Sargent, February, 1945,

OCCUPATION: Factory representative.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 761

LAWRENCE AMES NOWELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: Route 1, Box 95, Evergreen, Colo. 80439.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The First National Bank of Denver, T.A. Box 5808, Denver 17,
Colo.

PREPARED AT: The Principia, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; M.B.A., 1941.

marRieD: Elizabeth Allen, Oct. 4, 1941. cHiLpREN: Anna Lee Ames, Nov. 10, 1943;
George Chapman, Aug. 28, 1946; Thomas Harrison, May 12, 1948; Evelyn
Ames, Nov. 16, 1949; Peter Allen, June 27, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Trust officer, Investment Division, The First National Bank of Denver,
Denver, Colo.

OFFICES HELD: Charter member, president, 1950, Greenwich (Conn.) Taxpayers
Association; secretary, Rocky Mountain Harvard Club, 1958-59, since 1961;
director, 1960-63, vice-president, 1962-63, National Federation of Financial
Analysts Societies; president, Denver Society of Financial Analysts, June, 1959,
to June, 1960.

MEMBER OF: Rocky Mountain Harvard Club; Bond Club of Denver; Denver So-
ciety of Financial Analysts.

Graduation from the Harvard Business School was followed shortly
by marriage. I had barely enough time to find out what good fortune
had befallen me before a tour with the Army beckoned. After seemingly
aimless wanderings through eight camps, I traveled through Italy, France
and Germany with the Field Artillery, emerging as a first lieutenant and
intermediate grade poker player.

Our family lived in Connecticut several years while I commuted to
New York and worked as a financial analy’ st with two manufacturing
companies, For the past eight years I have been in trust investment work
in Denver.

As a cog in a large family, I have been engaged in numerous activities
associated with growing up—Cub and Boy Scouts, P.T.A., Sunday
School teaching, etc, Now that we have built a home in a foothills
(7,600 ft. altitude) suburb, I lead the pack on frequent hikes into the
high country to satisfy our curiosity and to find good fishing.

Politically, I have been and remain a conservative. Yet this has in-
volved a basic change in outlook; a transition from trying to preserve the
status quo (particularly in the economic ficld) to one of seeking to
maintain moral and spiritual values —the principles of which are con-
stant but the expressions of which are constantly adapting to the needs
of the times. I strongly disagree with the claim that our problems (ne

762 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

matter how “sophisticated” they may be) will best be met by vesting
more and more decision-making power in the Executive Branch of ou.
government. It would be interesting, indeed, if those who justify thei:
actions in the names of earlier American leaders were, instead, to con-
form to the principles which those leaders set forth.

IRVING CHESTER NOYES +

    
 

  
 

-

é

lef

LAST MAILING appRESS: 207 Northwood Circle, Durham, N.C.

‘

woe oa . i 5
x 4

RICHARD MACY NOYES

wr”

 

.

§ i

HOME aAppREss; 2014 Elk Ave., Eugene, Oregon.

OrFice appress: Dept. of Chemistry, University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon.

PREPARED AT: University of IHinois High School, Urbana, II.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1939; PH.D. (Cali-
fornia Inst. of Technology), 1942.

MARRIED: Winninette Arnold, July 12, 1946,

OccuPATION: Professor of chemistry and head, Department of Chemistry, Uni-
versity of Oregon.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Division of Physical Chemistry, American Chemical So-
ciety, 1961-62, Atlantic Chapter, Sierra Club, 1957-58, Pacific Northwest
Chapter, Sierra Club, 1962-63.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Physical Society ; The
Chemical Society (London); Sigma Xi; Sierra Club; Wilderness Society;

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 763

American Civil Liberties Union; Society for Social Responsibility in Science;
Nature Conservancy; North Cascades Conservation Council; Oregon Cascades
Conservation Council; Friends of the Three Sisters; Alaska Conservation
Society.

puBLICATIONS: Over sixty technical papers in chemical journals and chapters in
books. They deal with mechanisms of exchange and elimination reactions,
photo-chemical formation and subsequent recombination of iodine atoms in
solution, theory of diffusion controlled reactions, mechanisms of inorganic
oxidations, properties of ions in solution, and similar topics.

In June, 1939, I got a graduation present of a fellowship from Harvard
that permitted me to spend a fascinating summer wandering through a
western Europe that was moving hypnotically toward catastrophe. After
some difficulty with canceled sailings when war broke out, I crossed the
Atlantic on a blacked-out French ship and kept heading west for Pasa-
dena.

Graduate work at Cal Tech destroyed my illusions that even a Har-
vard undergraduate education could cover the field of chemistry. Here
in one of the most stimulating research atmospheres imaginable i It was a
real delight to join the interplay that led to new ideas.

Then the atmosphere changed, and the doors closed around the labora-
tory. When a friend asked my help in solving a mathematical equation,
he admitted that the customary symbols were changed so that I wouldn’t
know the significance of the problem! Once my degree was completed, I
tried to become versed in the analysis and stability testing of chemical
explosives and rocket propellants. I certainly had it easier than most of
my generation, and there was real intellectual stimulation in trving to
answer questions such as what wood provided the cellulose the Germans
were nitrating or which oil fields the Japanese had back in production.
However, I was glad when I could drop explosives and be able to chose
for myself the questions I thought it would be most important to try to
answer,

My seven years in California taught me not only the jovs of exploring
the fringes of established knowledge but also of pretending to explore the
mountain wilderness. While most of my classmates were being tested
by the bitter struggle with other men, I was learning my strengths and
weaknesses by pitting myself against the grim but not delibe rately Ma-
licious adversaries of the peaks.

In 1946 I married Winninette Arnold (Stanford *39) and crossed the
country on an extended honeymoon before joining the Chemistry De-
partment at Columbia University. Except for a year at Leeds during
1955-56, I spent the next tw elve years working up the academic ladder
to associate professor, This process included learning the mechanisms
of several reactions and developing some new theories for treating very
fast reactions in solution. [I was also gratified to feel that some students
had learned a little useful physical chemistry from me.

Columbia provided good facilities and opportunitics to develop: pro-
fessionally, but our years in New York City were not entirely happy.
Our two children died after three months and three dav respectively,
and we never really adjusted to the metropohs., In Lys, I decided to
gamble on the possibility thar the University of Oregon could: develop
a good department of chemistry where little had existed before but where
I was convineed that the administration really wanted to do something.

764 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Some eyebrows must have been raised by the move, but I have never
regretted the decision. Things have gone better than could have been
hoped during the past five years, and our department now boasts the
first man ever elected to the National Academy of Sciences from the
State of Oregon. We also have the first man from a western state other
than California to win the American Chemical Society Award in Pure
Chemistry given each year to the outstanding chemist under thirty-five.
] have spent a term as chairman of the Division of Physical Chemistry of
the American Chemical Society and now find myself head of the de-
partment. We are on a Starvation budget and face a legislature that
shows little interest in the sort of reputation we are trying to build. Time
will tell whether we can maintain our momentum.

Although I am nearing the age where I could expect my research pro-
ductivity to drop, it still seems to be expanding. I am tending to move
away from the solution of specific problems toward the search for broad
general relations and am having more success than expected. This kind
of research is a gamble that is apt to produce nothing, but the stakes are
also larger than for the kind of thing I have been doing. The specializa-
tion of modern chemistry produces too many trees for each real view
of a forest. I seem to have done enough good specific jobs to get the
support I need to gamble on some of the general correlations that seem
desperately to need doing.

Meanwhile, wilderness preservation has become an avocation that
consumes most of my available spare time. Within a century, the large
expanses of land little influenced by man have dwindled to a few islands.
In the lower forty-eight states, the next decade will see the decisions that
determine irrevocably how much can possibly be kept unmodified. Be-
cause such lands contributed so much to my own emotional development,

I want to see land use decisions that will permit similar experiences to
future generations.

I was a charter member and later chairman of the Atlantic Chapter of
the Sierra Club when the fight against Echo Park Dam was being fought
and won. Now I am chairman of the Pacific Northwest Chapter, and
Win is editor of the publication for our members, In no other part of
the country except Alaska is there so much opportunity as in the North-
west to consider wilderness values when land use decisions are made.

This is also a part of the country where an ordinary individual can make
more direct political contacts than he can in the East. The glory of the
American system of government is the extent to which a few dedicated
individuals can influence decisions at local, state, and even national
levels. Nobody can try to fight on all issues at once, but each educated
citizen should have some area of special concern on which he attempts to
be informed and influential. Wilderness preservation is futile in the long
run unless the problems of war and population growth are also solved,
but that fact should not prevent me from working at a problem made to
order for my geographical location and personal interests. If a man
could not escape occasionally for a few days of wilderness solitude, it
would be a poor world indeed.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 765

ROBERT Du SHANE NUNER t+

SORIA E Co ee ore “4

      
   

   
  
 

tage eo
p ATT ON
je

Nc ADDRESS: 710 Park Ave., South Bend 16, Ind.

JAMES PRESTON O’DONNELL t¢

   
 

ri]

MEELING ADDRESS: 2338 Massachusetts Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C. 2007 —

REMSEN BRINCKERHOFF OGILBY, Il

766 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939
oFFice appress: Ogilby, Huhn & Barr, 613 15th St., N.W., Room 404, Washington,
D.C

PREPARED AT: St, Alban’s School for Boys, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B, 1939; LL.B. (George Washington
Univ.), 1948.

MARRIED: Martha Louise Cloud, Feb. 28, 1942. cHiLpREN: Remsen Scott, Aug. 28,
1943; Michael Cloud, May 12, 1945; Lee Elizabeth and Lynn Allen (twins),
May 24, 1951,

OCCUPATION: Attorney in private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Miscellaneous offices in charitable enterprises, P.T.A.’s, bar associa-
tions, Boy Scouts and civic associations; chairman, Citizens’ Committee (i.e.

Mayor), Chevy Chase, Md.
MEMBER OF: Chevy Chase Club; Metropolitan Club; Monterey Country Club;
The Barristers; Lawyer's Club; Sons of the Revolution,

In the fall of 1939 I went to work for the Washington Post. Any il-
lusions | might have had of my value to the journalistic world were
quickly shattered by the staggering salary I was paid, $14.00 per week
for a starter. I stayed with the Post for two enjoyable and stimulating
years, serving on the editorial staff under two brilliant editors, Felix
Morley and, later, Herbert Elliston.

Came 1941, shadows, and visions of the draft. I secured a commission
as an ensign in the Navy and went on active duty with Naval Intelligence
in the fall. Shortly thereafter, February 28, 1942, I made my smartest and,
by all odds, my best move, the one that has given me the greatest happi-
ness in life, when I married Martha Cloud of Austin, Texas, who, for
some reason, still puts up with me.

After a hectic year and a half with Naval Intelligence, I asked for and
received sea duty. For two years I served on a Destroyer Escort on
anti-submarine duty, both convoy work and screening “jeep” carriers.
Tor nearly a year I served in the Pacific on an AKA as executive officer
and, for a time, commanding officer.

I returned from service in early 1946 as a lieutenant commander and
entered law school in an effort to determine how best to support a family
then grown to four. Scott had been born in 1943, Michael in 1945. Fol-
lowing graduation from George Washington Law School in 1948, I prac-
tised with my father’s firm in Washington. The partnership of Ogilby,
Huhn & Barr was subsequently formed, the Barr, of course, being Jack

Barr, my Harvard roommate. My father has since died, at the age of
eighty-three and active in the practice until the day he died.

We are a small firm in a large city where every third person seems to
be a lawyer. Most seem to survive somehow. We have a very general,
but largely office practice, principally including taxes, real estate matters,
banking, wills, trusts, care and settlement of estates, etc. So much for the
commercial,

The most significant change in my status during these latter years was
the totally unexpected acquisition of twin daughters, Lee and Lynn, born
in 1951. Life has never been really dull or prosaic since that time.

For the rest, average would be the keyword. I lead a relatively quiet
and uneventful life —a normal amount of work, sprinkled with pleasure,

a fairly heavy participation in civic, school and charitable activities — I

have even been mayor of our small, suburban community, I still overbid

at bridge and look up at golf and like to eat and drink. With children in

~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 767

college and high school, Martha and I are beginning to speculate on the
“golden” (?) years.

JOHN JOSEPH O’HARA

    

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Hamilton Rd., Wellesley, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: New England Tel. & Tel. Co., 50 Oliver St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Boston Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B. 1939; ED.M. (Boston Teachers
Coll.) , 1940.

MARRIED: Virginia Marie O’Brien, May 20. 1944, CHILDREN: Kathleen Ann. April
6, 1945; Virginia Marie, Aug. 7, 1946; John Joseph, Nov. 24, 1948; David
Francis, Jan. 25, 1952; Maureen Lucile, March 30, 1955; Elizabeth Isabel,
Jan. 10, 1961.

OccuPATION: Revenue accounting supervisor — state area, New England Telephone
& Telegraph Company.

I'm afraid we'll have to accept the fact, however reluctantly, that we
are in the second half of the game of life—and lucky to have come
this far. The proofs from which I must select a picture for our Report
only confirm an uneasy suspicion of long duration. I apparently look
quite differently to others than I really am, It is bad enough, if under-
standable, that my closest associates don’t even suspect my many sterling
inner qualities, but when something as impersonal as a camera in the
hands of a professional photographer so misreads and misrecords my
outward appearance, I am tempted to abandon any real hope for proper
recognition. This further tends to dispel a certain anticipatory smug-
ness toward my class contemporaries — whose pictures 1 felt certain
would indicate they were definitely changing for the worse with time.
Now, of course, I] must accept the fact that equipment which has been
recording them for posterity may be no more accurate than thar to
which I have been recently exposed,

Turning back the pages to the past, always a safer spot to dwell
mentally once you're through it, | find my war record as follows: Jomed
Naval Reserve, summer of 1940; on light cruiser USS Quincy, fall ot
1940; Northwestern University, winter of 1rgqo-y1; Squantum Naval Atr
Base, spring of togt; Jacksonville Naval Air Station, summer of tagti
on seaplane tender USS Matagorda, 1o4t-g4i on amphibious flagship
USS El Dorado, 1944-45) Cond ef ward), In the course of the above,
spanning the entire war period, time was spent: sceing much of the

768 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

world — perhaps not ideally — but neither time, family, nor finances
would have permitted anything like it in the last eighteen years. There
are personal experiences to remember in association with such names as
Norfolk, Newport, Panama, Galapagos, Cartagena, Trinidad, Jamaica,
Argentina, Iceland, Milford Haven, London, Gibraltar, Malta, Casablanca,
St. Thomas, Pearl Harbor, Manila, Iwo Jima, Okinawa, etc. Time has
covered much of this with a light veil which I hesitate to lift.

I am happily married to a wonderful girl and we have been blessed
with six lovely children. The pairings, two girls, two boys, two girls,
while accidental have been providential in many ways. The family has
been a continuing education far beyond anything encountered in books,
classroom or formal media. In retrospect, the early childhood years
were a snap compared to what parents endure in their children’s teens.
We have all been exposed to the propaganda that adolescence is very
hard on our youngsters—I am sure it is— but if it is any less hard
on the parents, I don’t believe it. Nevertheless, we love them all and
hope they continue to love us even though our human natures ever
reveal to them those personal frailties which make us what we are, but
which to them are absolutely unbearable. (Strangely, but unacceptably
to them, we sce their faults in a similar light.) So be it —let’s have no
further apologia parentis.

Throughout the above certain glimpses of a philosophy may be dis-
cernible. For the record perhaps it would be well to make some definite,
positive commitments. A firm belief in Roman Catholicism is the key-
stone of my existence; it has already helped me through some of those
crises which befall each of us, has colored my entire life in all major
and minor stages, and will see me through this vale of tears —I don’t
understand how a person can exist without some strong religious feeling.
Many things in my experiences to date, including the before-mentioned
visits to other parts of the world, have served to convince me that ours
is the best country in which to live, that our system — not perfect — is
still the best existent. There is a lot of room for improvement in
domestic as well as foreign affairs, but I am proud to be an American.
In addition, 1 am proud to be a graduate of America’s finest University
and a member of the Class of °39.

OLIVE, JR.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 769

HOME AppREss: 41 Tyler Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 18 Moore St., Belmont 78, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; m.p. (Tufts Coll.), 1943.

MARRIED: Priscilla Keighler, April 11, 1944. cuitpRen: George, July 6, 1947; John
C., Oct. 23, 1949; Priscilla, Dec. 7, 1952.

OccUPATION: Physician; ophthalmologist; private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in ophthalmology, Massachusetts Eye & Ear Infirmary;
clinical instructor in ophthalmology, Tufts Medical School; ophthalmologist
to Harvard University Health Services.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society; New
England Ophthalmological Society.

It seems strange that anybody would ever bother to read any of this
nonsense, but for the benefit of the curious this is about all that has
happened to me.

As you can see, I was fortunate to be able to get to medical school in
1939. This took care of the next four years, followed by the usual intern-
ship and then three years with our Uncle Sam in the Medical Corps of
the Army. However, this was made much more pleasant by my marriage
to my present wife who was kind enough to single-handedly bear us
three children. The two boys are currently at Belmont Hill School and
hoping to get to Harvard some day. Unless they are a lot smarter than
their old man, they will never make it. The Lord only knows what
will become of my daughter.

I practised general medicine from 1946 to 1956, at which time I re-
turned to the Massachusetts Eye & Ear Infirmary to learn the trade of
ophthalmology, otherwise known as “Doctor of Eyeballs.” This has
proved much more interesting, and I hope will continue to do so, It
seems hard to believe that we left Harvard twenty-five years ago, but I
personally cannot complain of my life so far, both professionally and
with my family.

JEREMIAH RICHARD O’NEIL, JR.+

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 43 Florence Ave. Norwood, Mass.

770 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

DAVID JULIUS OPPENHEIM

    

ya ES

  

HOME ApoRESS: 11 Garrison Rd., Belmont 78, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS; 18 Moore St., Belmont 78, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; A.M., 1940; D.m..,
1944; mop, (Tufts Coll.) , 1947.

MARRIED: Miriam Morrison, Aug. 30, 1942. CHILD: Jonathan Hirsh, June 3, 1953.

occuPaTION: Physician — internal medicine.

After completing my academic training, including hospital intern-
ships and residency, followed by two years of service with the Army, I
have spent the last ten years at my favorite occupation as family doctor.
I am enjoying watching our ten-year-old son grow up and sharing this
with my social working wife — who also lovingly puts up with me.

I still have high hopes that man will somehow continue to remain on
earth and that he will somehow make it with more justice and humanity
and less prejudice than in the past. However, I have less conviction that
I can see any clear cut road to such an end than I had twenty-five years
apo.

FREDERIC JOSKE OPPENHEIMER

  
   

a aN.
HOME ADDRESS; 103 Stillwell, San Antonio 9, Texas,

OFFiGe ADDRESS: San Antonio Loan & Trust Co, P.O, Box 1228, San Antonio 6,
exas,

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 771

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

maRRIED: Laura Wells, Aug. 11, 1940 (divorced 1947) ; Dorothea Chittim, Dee, 10,
1952. cuitp: Lucille, April 11, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Banker; president, mortgage lending, trust work.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee and treasurer, St. Mary’s Hall School, 1959-63; trustee,
Sunshine Cottage School for Deaf, 1962-63; trustee and treasurer, San An-
tonio Public Library, 1955-57; director, Children’s Hospital Foundation, 1960-
63; member, board of governors, Silver Hill Foundation, 1959-63; director,
First National Bank of San Antonio, 1953-63; trustee and member, executive
committee, San Antonio Museum Association, 1959-63; director, United
Fund, 1963; member, board of governors, San Antonio Estate Planners
Council, 1960-63; director, Research & Planning Council, 1961-63; member,
Charities Committee, Charity Ball Association, 1962; director, San Antonio
Security Analysts Society, 1963; director, Southwest Methodist Hospital
Foundation, 1962-63, San Antonio Fair, Inc., 1963, Santa Rosa Medical Center,
1958-63; member, Centennial Committee, Trinity University, 1962-63; presi-
dent and director, Southwest Texas Corporation, 1959-63; director and mem-
ber, executive committee, San Antonio Symphony Society, 1950-52; director

and treasurer, Alamo Area Council, Boy Scouts of America, 1950-55.
MEMBER OF: San Antonio Country Club; German Club; Harvard Club of San
Antonio; Order of the Alamo; Argyle Club; San Antonio Club.

 

HOME ADpREsS: Oak Hill Farm, Raytown 33, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Oppenheimer Industries, Inc., 1808 Main St., Kansas City, Mo.

PREPARED AT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.; Culver Naval School,
Culver, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939, DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Sally Hamilton, Feb. 19, 1944. cutLpreN: Hamilton Godfrey, Feb. 28.
eee Reed Jules, Dec. 6, 1949; Harold Byrd, Feb. 8, 1954; Eric, Nov. 22,

OccuPaTION: Chairman of board, Oppenheimer Industries, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of board, Atlas Acceptance Corporation: president, Mid-
Town Development Corporation, National Cattlemen’s Cooperative; vice-
president, Baygs Livestock Company; president, Atlas Small Business Invest-
ment Corporation; commanding officer, VTU (8) 9-4, USMCR,

MEMBER OF: Mission Valley Hunt Club; Harvard Club of Kansas City; Military
Order of World Wars; Marine Corps Officers Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Cowboy Arithmetic, Interstate Press, Danville. Winois: “Samoan
Military Grammar,” published by US, Marine Corps, 1943; various articles
in Marine Corps Gazette, Hereferd Journal and ether military publications;
Cowboy Economics, being published this winter by Interstate Press: articles
including “Command of Native Troops,” “IBM Equipment on a General

772 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939
Staff,” “Horses and Mules in Military Operations,” “So You Don’t Make
Commandant.”

1939-41 — In charge of Harvard Anthropological Expedition in Bolivia
with Aymara Indians — made second ascent of Huani Potosi in Bolivia.

1941-46 — U.S. Marine Corps, Infantry, Staff and Amtracks, Four
years’ overseas duty in two periods. Served on Samoa, Wallis Island,
Guadalcanal, Guam and Okinawa. Commanded 4th Amtrack Battalion.

1947-50 — President of Allied Motors, Plymouth Dealers Association
and Baltimore Realty Company and operated family farms. Commanding
officer of sth 105 mm. How Bn, USMCR.

1950-53 — Graduated Junior School and on staff, Senior School at
Quantico, Tactical Operations Group, instructor arctic warfare, gradu-

ated Warfare School — Big Delta, Alaska.

1953-60 — Commanding officer, 2d Weapons Bn. two tours Naval
War College, two tours National War College.
Oppenheimer Industries of which I am chairman of the board is the

largest ranch and cattle management firm in the United States with
operations in thirteen midwestern states. We have a branch office in
New York City. (We are the only people selling cows on 57th Street.)
We recently spearheaded a group which appeared before Congress m a
successful fight to eliminate the portion of the new tax proposal which
would prevent people with “outside income” from entering the farm
and ranch business. We believe this is the only item in the proposed tax
bill chat was unanimously opposed by the entire House Ways and Means
Committee.

1 have retained an active interest in the Marine Corps and am at the
present time a colonel commanding VTU (S) 9-4. Our home operations
at Oak Hill Farm, east of Kansas City, have quieted down considerably
since our four boys are in school, the two eldest at Culver Military
Academy,

SAMUEL EDMUND OSBOURN, JR.

    

HOME Avpress: 2468 Hillside Drive, Schuylkill Hills, Norristown, M-5, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Insurance Co. of North America, 1600 Arch St., Philadelphia 1, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Germantown Academy, Philadelphia, Pa; Phillips Academy,
dover, Mass.

An-
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937, 1938-1940. pECREE: s.3., 1939(40).
marriso: Doris E. Baker, June 7, 1958. city: Samuel Edmund, 3d, Sept. 23, 1961.

—~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 773

OccUPATION: Senior computer systems analyst, Insurance Company of North
America.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Betzwood Civic Association, since 1961.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia; George Washington Country Club,

Audubon, Pa.; Eagle Lodge Golf Club, Roxborough, Pa.; Sigma Alpha
Epsilon Fraternity.

Upon serious and sober reflection, I have reached the following sad
conclusion: twenty-five years after graduation finds me more and less
the same character I was, more avoirdupois (redistributed) and less hair.

After graduation, I joined the Insurance Company of North America
in Philadelphia. Except for the tour of army life in the European
theatre, I have been associated with INA ever since, barely managing to
keep one step ahead of an ulcer. Where many others may have jumped
from company to company, I received my background by working in
various departments until I finally settled in systems work. From 1957
on, all my efforts have been associated with the subsidiary INA started,
the Life Insurance Company of North America. Since then it has be-
come one of the fastest growing life insurance companies in business
today, with over one billion dollars of “in force” insurance.

During this time I have taken IBM courses including the programming
of the 1401 and the 7080, a systems course given by the American
Management Association and am taking Life Office Management Associa~
tion exams to keep my knowledge up to date. It almost seems incon-
ceivable the progress that has been made in data processing since our
graduation.

For many years I managed to remain a bachelor by use of evasive
tactics. This paid off, because five years ago, I finally met the girl I
had been hunting for and managed to convince her that we should take
the plunge into the matrimonial sea. As might be expected, this con-
siderably changed my life. Now I am trving to retain my vouth so that
I can keep up with my two-year-old son who I fear, even without a
Harvard degree, 1s smarter than “his old man.”

Since moving into my new home, I am wondering why in this world
of “do-it-yourself” Harvard does not have a course to teach students
with two left thumbs how to be “handy men” around the house. I
certainly could use such a course now.

JOHN WILLIAM OTVOS

774 HARVARD CLASS OF I 939

HOME appress: 8 Sunset Drive, Berkeley 7, Calif.

orrice appress: Shell Development Co., 1400 53d St. Emeryville 8, Calif,

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: 5.B., summa cum laude, 1939; PH.D. (Cali-
fornia Inst. of Technology), 1943.

marriep: Marguerite Jane Cline, July 9, 1945. cHiLpREN: James Dorian, Aug. 20,
1947; Allan Gordon, Feb. 2, 1950; Linda, Feb. 21, 1953,

occuPATION: Research chemist; Department Head, Chemical Physics, Shell De-
velopment Company.

orFices HELD: Councillor, California Section, American Chemical Society, 1956-59;
chairman, Shell Development Research Club, Sigma Xi, 1960.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Sigma Xi; American Physical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: “Radiation Processing,” with C. D. Wagner, Advances in Petroleum
Chemistry & Refining, Vol. 2, New York, Interscience, 1959; twenty-five
publications in technical journals on radiochemistry, kinetics, analytical
chemistry and spectroscopy, beginning with “Raman Spectra of Deuterium
Substituted Guanidine and Urea,” with J.T. Edsall, Journal of Chemical
Physics, 1939, through “Investigation of Structure in Liquid Hydrocarbons by
X-ray Diffraction,” with H. Mendel, Acta Crystallographica, July, 1962; U.S.
Patent 2,641,710, with D. J. Pompeo, “Radiological Gas Analysis,” June, 1953.

My graduate work began on a lucky note that persisted for several
years. | got a fellowship at my first choice, Cal Tech, and was rejected
by my second and third, California and Stanford. My research on a
chemical warfare project turned out to be suitable for a thesis, so I got
my degree without delay. Also, I met my wife at Cal Tech, which was
her first choice too.

Since 1946 I've worked at Shell Development and we've lived in Berke-
ley except for a few extended trips. In 1948 I spent a month at Oak Ridge
taking a course in radioisotope techniques that I needed in my early
research at Shell. Since then I’ve moved to chemical kinetics, spectros-
copy, analytical chemistry and photochemistry. In 1950 the family was
sent to the St. Louis area where I spent a year (1950-51) at the Wood

River Refinery. The work was interesting and quite different from what
I was used to. We enjoyed everything except the climate but we were
glad to get back. Recently, a year’s assignment (1960-61) at the Shell
Laboratory in Amsterdam took the whole family abroad. So far I think
this has been the high point for us all. The children, seven, ten and
thirteen, were young enough to be still with us and old enough to react
to their surroundings. They went to Dutch schools, made friends, learned

the language, and got good marks. In the early days it was weird watch-

ing Jim translate his French homework into Dutch without really know-
ing what he was talking about. We had lots of time for travel — both
with and without children— from Wales to Budapest and Bergen to

Naples. And we could do it without being like tourists, or so we liked

to think.

At home our community activities have been steady rather than climac-
tic. Margie has been an officer of the local Democratic Club and active
in many others, while I have been a director of the Improvement Club.
I had one brief fling at politics in an incorporation election when I was
elected to the City Council but the City was voted down. We all enjoy
sports together. As Sierra Club members we camp and hike on most
vacations and in between we play tennis. Some of us even play golf but
so far I’ve held out and stuck to baseball. Until now Pve been the player-
manager of the Shell softball team but next year T’ll probably have to

——_-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT q75

retire. When the family comes east for the Reunion, I'll have to miss
half of our season, and at my age once you stop it’s hard to make a come-
back.

ROSWELL BOND PAINE

PSI EERE EE ON PT AO TR SEH ES

   

Bi ELLE EL OTE SET TR

     

HOME ADDRESS: 218 Poplar Ave., Wayne, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 260 S. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa.
PREPARED AT: North Dallas High School, Dallas, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937, 1938-1940. pecrEes: a.B., 1939(40); a.m. (Univ. of
Pennsylvania) , 1960.

MARRIED: Martha Louise Hubbard, April 17, 1942. cHitpren: John Randolph, July
23, 1945; Roswell Bond, Jr., Jan. 28, 1947; Cary Altizer, March 29, 1954.
occupation: Manager, Accounting Research Division, integrated oil company;

developing managerial accounting techniques.

MEMBER OF: American Petroleum Institute; National Association of Accountants;
Harvard Club of Philadelphia; Boy Scouts of America; North Wayne Pro-

tective Association.

When I finally was graduated with the Class of ’40 (evidently I liked
Harvard more than most of you), I headed back for Texas and the oil
business. Not having any land for someone else to drill on or money to
drill on someone else’s land, I stumbled around in Mr. Roosevelt’s re-
cession for a few months and then went to work for Aciantic Refining
Company as a bright, intelligent, eager mail boy, happy to have a job.

After a year of rapid advancement to two levels higher I found a
wonderful gal who was making more money than I and, what with the
threat of war, I fast talked her into marriage. As her personality is
the complete opposite of mine, life has been interesting!

After six months in the Air Force the Army and | reached an agree-
ment and parted company, me with a Certified Disability Discharge and
the Army with its mission. This enabled me to get closer to the business
of raising a family and the results (final, I think) are three fine, healthy
sons: Randy, eighteen, is a freshman at Denison University; Ros (Jr.),
sixteen, a junior at the local high school; and Cary, nine, in the fourth
grade. We slowed down to catch our breath.

In 1954 after climbing about as far as I could in the Dallas office, I
grabbed the chance to move to the home oftice of Atlantic in Phila-
delphia. I haven’t quit rowing up stream yet but the current gets rough

in an assistant controller's spot. If the work were not challenging it
wouldn't be worth it.

776 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

My main interest these past years has been my sons. I have been
through scouting from Cubs to Explorers twice and am now on the third
time around. Little League baseball has also given me a few sore muscles
but it has been a lot of fun. I did take time out from family life and do-
it-yourself home maintenance to go back to school for an A.M. degree
in economics at the University of Pennsylvania (1960).

There are a couple of things still left to be done. First, get the boys
through college; and second, move to eastern Arizona and get on with

the fishing, In the meanwhile I'll probably stay where I am and keep
bucking the current.

HAROLD PALMER, JR.

 

apprEss: Greenwich Country Day School, Greenwich, Conn.
PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss Schol, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1938. pEcREES: A.B. (Bowdoin Coll.), 1947; a.m. (Colum-
bia Univ.).

MARRIED: Patricia McCarthy Williams, 1950. cHILDREN: Christopher; Sarah; Pa-
tricia; Deborah; Madeleine.

OCCUPATION: Instructor and Head of Department of Mathematics, Greenwich
Country Day School.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Mathematics Committee, National Association of Inde-
pendent Schools.

MEMBER OF: Kappa Sigma; Phi Beta Kappa.

Instructor in mathematics and English at the Hoosac School, 1948-49,
instructor in English at the Short Hills Country Day School, 1949-50-
Married to Miss Patricia McCarthy Williams of Lincoln, Nebraska, in
1950. Recalled to duty during the Korean War, 1950-52, in the Depart-
ment of the Inspector General. No foreign duty. Returned to Short
Hills Country Day School as an instructor in mathematics, 1952-56-
Instructor in mathematics, 1956-60, Tower Hill School, Wilmington,
Delaware. Instructor and head of the Department of Mathematics, the

Greenwich Country Day School, Greenwich, Connecticut, 1960 to the
present.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 777

HOWARD McCLUSKY PALMER t

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: P.O. Box 2622, ARAMCO, Dhahran, Saudi Arabia.

* JACKSON PALMER, JR.

 

BORN: July 3, 1917, Cambridge, Mass. PARENTS: Jackson Palmer, ‘05, Caroline
Beserick.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939,
DIED: Killed in action, May 28, 1944, over Germany,

After college Palmer spent two years traveling about the United
States assisting his father in metallurgical work. In May. 1g42. he
enlisted in the Army Air Corps and was commussioned a second licu-
tenant in 1943. He was assigned to a B-17 crew and trained in Delhart,
Texas, as navigator. In 1944 he went to the European Theatre, com-
pleted twelve missions over Ciermany and received the Air Medal with
two citations for his work. He was killed in action over Germany, He
was survived by his parents,

778 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

THEODORE JOHNSON PALMER

%

  
  

at]

FRC a TTT Ger

  

”

' ws it at [|

HOME appress: Cobalt, Conn.; 145 E. 82d St., New York, N.Y.

orFice appress: IM. Pei & Associates, 385 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R_I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1940. pEGREES: a.B., 1939(40) ; B.arcH., 1948.

MARRIED: Prudence Taylor, May 22, 1955.

occupation: Chief of research department, I.M. Pei & Associates, architects and
planners; interior designer; residential architect.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

OR ERT MEME

I am devoting the spare time left over from a very busy architectural
office to continue to try to synthesize the good life — art, revolution and
gastronomy — by designing houses for friends (art?), working for
civil rights (revolution: ) and raising grapes for wine — our own brand
(gastronomy? ).

FREDERIC EUGENE PAMP, JR.

o " :
pe nm

     

HOME Appress: 200 Linden Ave., Glen Ridge, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Management Association, 135 W. 50th St., New York
19, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1939; A.M., 1941;
PH.D., 1951.

marRiep: Janet Novak, Aug. 15, 1942, cHILDREN: Diane Janet, April 2, 1944;

Frederic Richard, Aug. 20, 1946.

—_

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 779

occupaTION: Vice-president, American Management Association, Inc.; president,
American Foundation for Management Research.

OFFICES HELD: Various minor civic association and fund drive chairmanships, etc.:
trustee, Glen Ridge Congregational Church; chairman, Committee on Inter-
national Program, National Student Council of YMCA’s.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa.

puBLIcATIONS: Normandy to the Elbe: History of XIX Corps, 1945; “Walton's
Redaction of Hooker,” Church History, xvii (1948) 95-116; “Is There a Fu-
ture for the Teaching of English?”, School and Society, July 2, 1949; “Science,
Morals and the Teaching of Literature,” College English, March, 1950;
“Communism and Calvinism: an Historical Analogy,” Journal of General
Education, January, 1953; “The Liberal Arts as Preparation for Business.”
Harvard Business Review, May-June, 1955; “Meeting the Nation’s Needs in
Management Education,” Management International, 1962, Vol. 2, No. 5.

At this climacteric, if it is one, what floats in my consciousness is a
curious subdued mix of guilts and compassions, a sense of not yet being
set in any mold, yet with a feeling that this has been a very long prologue,
and I really ought to get down to it some time soon. I begin to feel time
as a measured weight, I can see now what is left and become more con-
scious of the cup that shall not pass from me; where the future, save for
the chance of being killed in the war, was once immeasurable.

It was much to my astonishment that I found myself heading for
Europe on a Sheldon in July, 1941, and I have been faintly astonished at
the turns I have taken since. I could write another Candide about the
way I have consistently walked blithely past, or wrong-headedlv refused
the obvious opportunities in those and subsequent years. But I am still
no advocate of the stringently planned career; the tests I walked into,
painful as many of them have been, give me a certain satisfaction that I
have not ducked any tough ones, and that I have been a part, however
small, of my times. I know now I can get in and make do in a variety of
actions and areas. Still, | wonder if (had I been as bumptious as |
seemed) I might not have laid the times under more direct claim for the

proper use of my talent and training. I refuse, however, to lav that
flattering unction to my soul that the war threw me off my track, and
that society refused to take up my option in the terms I could best serve.
I am content, let me say, that I have had a lot of action, a suitable level
of testing, and have been extremely lucky to come out as I have. More
important, I think some of the best can yet be. After all, I haven't vet
had my career. There are four books at least, that need writing, and I
shall write them, after I retire, if necessary. However, some college may
discover before that time that it can use another professor at not too
large a discount from my present salary, and I may listen and be per-
suaded.

My employment since I left teaching has been stimulating, sometimes
almost desperately so. My emplovers have been shrewd enough to keep
me continually off balance with new projects and scemingly impossible
situations, Looking back, I seem to remember not much more than
desperate muddle, revolving around me, but some living operations re-
main to testify that something was accomplished. New Lam launched,
as president of the American Foundation for Manayement Research, an
affiliate of AMA, on another new venture, which is much more to my
taste and bent. ,

The facts of my way to this point are in the precious Reunion books.

780 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939
1 can report as real achievement only survival, which in this day, as ir
any, is, 1 suppose, something. It is an accomplishment too, I suppose, tha:
one who helped free a Concentration Camp, who has been on the fringes
of administration of one or more churches, and who has seen a reason-
ably full spectrum of man in business and management, refuses still tc
be cynical although he must accept occasional disillusion. I cannot be-
lieve in determinism in the face of human freedom, whatever the puerile
assumptions of the reams of behavioral science research, some of it issu-
ing, | am sorry to note, from Harvard. If prophecies are in order, I may
forecast a new renascence of Humanism (Douglas Bush’s type, we may
hope), and a time when Philosophy can again become pertinent to the
real needs of man and Theology will become a resource for the advance
of knowledge, These things must come, but 1 wouldn’t dare say when.

When we gather for the Fiftieth, I shall hope to have a better track
record to report.

SOTIRIOS CHARLES PAPAFRANGOS

4

ot

       

HOME aboReEss: 411 S. Mission, Okmulgee, Okla.

OFFICE AppRess: 300 N. Morton, Okmulgee, Okla.

PREPARED AT: Springheld High Schools, Springfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREES: AB., cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1940.

MARRIED: Olympia Striggles, Dec. 6, 1951. cHImDREN: Charles Stanley, 1953; Theo-
dore William, 1956; Elaine Dianne, 1958,

occupation: Real estate (Okmulgee and Tulsa, Okla.).
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, City Library Board, since 1956.

Following a year of postgraduate study at the Harvard School of
Education, I took a brief fling at high school and college instructing.
The US. Army called, however, before 1 became committed in the
teaching profession. 1 was drafted in 1941 and went to a variety of
Army and technical schools including six months ar Washington and
Lee. I finally found myself overseas in New Delhi, India, as a junior
officer on General Stilwell’s staff. My assignment was the allocation of
supplies to competing commands in China, [ continued on general staff
duty under a series of generals in India and China winding up on Gen-
eral Marshall’s post-war mission in China. The last specific assignment
I had was the programming, locating in the Far East, and transporting
to Peiping, China, for subsequent transfer to the Chinese Communists,

A

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 781

several tens of thousands of tons of U.S. artillery, ammunition and other
war material. This was done in pursuance of General Marshall's ob-
jective of re-equipping the Communist armies for amalgamation into
the Chinese Nationalist forces. The supplies 1 assembled never were
peacefully transferred but fell into Communist hands in the subsequent
Nationalist loss of Peiping. For my work in this connection, 1 was
decorated by both General Wedemeyer and General Chiang Kai-shek.
After this last mission, 1 was returned to the United States and released
from the Army.

At this particular time, teaching seemed uninteresting to me and 1]
accepted an offer to become a business partner in the small Oklahoma
town of Okmulgee. Here, I soon enmeshed myself in a variety of civic
and business activities. In 1950, 1 was recalled into the Army for the
duration of the Korean action. | sat out this conflict, however, on the
general staff at the Pentagon. During this Army hitch, I married a
Des Moines, Iowa, girl. After the Korean action was over, I was again
released from the Army and returned to Okmulgee where I have since
been located.

* THEODORE THEOFANIS PAPPADOPOULOS

 

BORN: Oct. 12, 1916, Manchester, N.H. parents: Theofanis Anastos Pappadopoulos,
Catherine Demos.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937, 1938-1940, 1941-1942,
MARRIED. CHILD: a son.

piED: Killed in action, April 10, 1945, over Germany.

Shortly after his marriage, Pappadopoulos entered the Air Force in
March, 1942. After service in Hawaii, he returned to the United States
for aviation training. He was sent to Germany on a bombing mission
and on the way back his plane crashed. His wife died in August, 1LU4s.
He was survived by his son, .

782 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

SCHUYLER PARDEE, JR.

     

 

HOME Aboress: Pleasantville Road, New Vernon, N.J.

orice aporess: Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., Holmdel, NJ.

PREPARED AT: St, Paul's School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., 1939(40); 5.M. IN E.E. (Stevens Inst.
of Technology), 1960.

maraiep: Anna J. S. Pearre, July 25, 1941. cuitpren: Schuyler, 3d, May 20, 1943;
Jonathan L., Oct. 13, 1945; William L., Jan. 13, 1948; Thomas N., April 9,
1949; Katharine F., May 17, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Supervisor of a group of engineers doing design and development
work of military and communications electronic equipment.

orrices HELD: President. Randolph TWP. Fire Association, 1949; scoutmaster,
Troop 43, New Vernon. 1950-55; Explorer Post 43 delegate to New York-New
Jersey Trail Conference, since 1960; secretary, Morristown Judo Club, since
1903.

MEMBER OF: Wilderness Society; Appalachian Trail Conference; New York-New
Jersey Trail Conference; Steam Automobile Club of America; Sports Car
Club of America: Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers.

PUsLicaTioNs: One patent granted, three others applied for — all in electronic
field; co-authored article in Bell System Technical Journal, July, 1963 (Tel-
star issue).

After going through Harvard Engineering Camp in the summer of
1939, and desiring to see more of the world, took a job with Compania
Consolidada de Petroleo in Venezuela (this company was a subsidiary
of the Sinclair Oil Company). Worked there for three years, as a soil
sainpler (started at the bottom and worked down!), surveyor, airport
and road builder, steel building constructor, petroleum geologist and
engineer, power plant constructor and operator, and in telephone line in-
stallation and maintenance, etc. Met my wife during my first vacation,
married her during the second. We lived together in our do-it-yourself
mud hut, with thatched roof and all,

When the submarines stopped the tankers, returned to the States and
volunteered in the Navy. Got back to Harvard to Pre Radar School in
1943 (also M.LT.), then fought the battle of Philadelphia, instructing
in the Radio Materiel Office School, though I much wanted to go to sea.
Ended up a heutenant, senior grade, ‘

After the war, in 1946, joined the Bell Telephone Labs, working on
military projects, mostly fire control systems. Worked on the Telstar
system, also (and proud of my little part), Presently on military and

at

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 783

commercial communications. I have found my work at the Labs almost
invariably fascinating, and have never seriously questioned my choice
of this as a place to work and a field to work in. I carry some of it into
the hobby field, constructing TV sets, hi-fi amplifiers, and such.

Besides this hobby, I am interested in automobiles, do much of the
work on my own. I have (with my various partners) done reasonably
well on local sports-car rallies, and enjoy this. I would enjoy seeing the
steam car make a comeback, though I guess it isn’t very likely; I’m in-
terested in technical innovations in automobiles.

I’m interested in nature and nature conservancy. Have hiked the
Appalachian Trail in New Jersey, and some in Maine and New Hamp-
shire — would like to do the whole 2,000 miles. I maintain a section of
Trail in New Jersey. I’m concerned about our water resources and
about the Silent Spring sort of thing, as well as the preservation of our
wilderness and national forests and parks.

My politics are basically Republican, but not hidebound—I won't
vote for a bum just because he’s a Republican, and I don’t even think
that everything the Democratic party does is bad!

One son is at Amherst (his choice), one is working, two are at Saint
Paul’s. I’m broke!

FRANCIS STANLEY PARKER

    

HOME ADDRESS: 77 Avon Hill, Cambridge 40, Mass.
PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936.

MARRIED: Lesley Gray, May, 1943. cHILDREN: Rachel Linzee, Nov. 12, 1047;
Katharine Lucy, Oct. 9, 1958.
OCCUPATION: Painter.

I left Harvard in my freshman year to study painting, first in Boston
under Kleber Hall, then in New York at the Art Students” League, and
in Paris in 1938 under André Lhote.

In the summer of 1940 I served briefly in an American Ambulance
Unit (S.S.V.A.) until the fall of France, Returning to this country via
Spain, I joined the Canadian Army as a private in the Black Watch. 1
was taken prisoner at Dieppe in 1942 and spent the rest of the war as a

POW.

A ae
no eeepc

784 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Regaining England in May, 1943, I married Lesley Gray, and since
then we have lived successively in New York, Ipswich, Massachusetts,
and Aix en Provence. We now live in Cambridge with our two daugh-
ters, Rachel Linzee, sixteen, and Katharine Lucy, five. I am painting and
my wife works in Widener Library.

 

HOME appRESS: 178 E. Rock Rd., New Haven, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Economics, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.

PREPARED AT: East High School, Columbus, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEcREES: a.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.M., 1941;
PH.D., 1951; A.M. (Yale Univ.)}, 1962. . .

marrieD: Josephine Yvonne Forbus, Sept. 20, 1948. CHILDREN; Yvonne Victoria,
May 14, 1959; Jarrett Nelson, Nov. 24, 1962.

OCCUPATION: Professor of economics, Yale University. .

oFFices HELD: Editor, Journal of Economic History; trustee, Economic History
Association,

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author, Coal and Steel in Western Europe, 1956; part-author and
editor, Trends in the American Economy in the 19th Century, 1960; article on
Abbott Payson Usher,” in Architects and Craftsmen in History, 1956; “The
Slave Plantation in American Agriculture,” Proceedings of the First Interna-
tional Conference on Economic History, Stockholm, 1960; “Economic Develop-

ment in Historical Perspective,” Economic Development and Cultural Change,
October. 1961.

Life since Harvard was first two years of Harvard (Graduate School
in Economics), then three spells in Washington (1941, 1946-48, 1958-63),
interspersed with teaching economics (Williams, 1951-56, North Caro-
lina, 1956-63, alternating with terms in Washington the last few years)
and three European stints (in OCC, 1943-45, in the Ruhr writing a Ph.D.
dissertation, 1949-51, in London writing a book, 1954-55). I have almost,
but not quite, suppressed the memory of two years (1941-43) in army
camps in Mississippi, Florida and Maryland.

It took me the whole ten years from 1939 to 1948 to begin to get a
clue as to what life was all about. Not intellectually, but socially, Har-
vard was an overly protected cocoon. In 1948 two good things happened
to me: I met my wife and chose the field for my doctoral dissertation
and later research interest. The results of both choices have kept me
fascinated ever since.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 785

After marriage another ten years passed until a family came. During
that time, I had a chance to read and write and let my ideas develop in
my field— European and American economic history. In the years
1958-63, while teaching at the University of North Carolina, I spent
almost half my time on leave in the libraries in Washington, D.C. Now
with two very young children and a new appointment at Yale, I suppose
I should feel that life is just beginning. But I sometimes feel that I have
just barely staggered over the finish line. Still I’m looking forward to
reporting at the Fiftieth Reunion the record of a blossoming middle age.

KENNETH BARNITZ GILBERT PARSON, JR.

   

HOME ADDRESS: Brooklin, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Firestone & Parson, Ritz Carlton Hotel, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pDEGREE: S.B., 1939(40).

OCCUPATION: Jeweler.

JOSEPH ALEXIS PATRICK

  

   

1A

HOME appress: 15 Park Ave., New York, N.Y. 10016,
OFFICE appRESS: Bunge Corp., 1 Chase Manhattan Plaza, New York, N.Y. 10005,
PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: S.B., 1939,

786 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

marrieD: Jane Martha Morris, June 21, 1947.

occupation: Public relations manager, exporter of U.S. farm commodities,
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Varsity Club.

After release from the U.S. Army with the rank of captain and world
travels behind me, I was successively employed by the airline business,
investment banking and textiles, Finally a couple of years ago started my
present job, that of public relations manager of a large, most interesting
firm. We have thirty offices in the U.S. and from time to time m
duties take me to each one of them. It is a challenging and rewarding
type of work.

Not being blessed with children, my wife and I concentrate on the
activities of our thirty nieces and nephews. I also watch with admiration
the career of my wife as a fashion editor on Vogue magazine,

1 still retain an interest in hockey as a minor official for home games
of the New York Rangers, and occasionally put on the skates to referee
a schoolboy game. Love to play golf and have a secret ambition to out-

drive Classmate Dick Grondahl at least once before I am fifty.

Politiéally, 1 am slightly left of center; would certainly call myself a
liberal. Believe that race relations in our country is easily the number one

problem and in general am happy with the way the present administra-
tion is tackling the problem.

CHARLES WILLIAM PATTERS

ON

      

HOME ADpDRESS: 37 Elm St., Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Commerce Bldg., 340 Main St., Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; LLB., 1942(47).

MARRIED: Florence Christopulos, June 22, 1941. cHttpren: Charles William, 2d,
Jan. 15, 1945; Christopher Dale, Oct. 22, 1948; Deborah Joan, June 28, 1951.

occuraTion: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Representative, General Court of the Commonwealth of Massa-
chusetts, 1954-59; special commissioner to redistrict the Legislature; lega
adviser, Eastern Orthodox Council of Churches of the Greater Worcester area,
Friendly House (Community Chest organization); member, executive com-

mittee, Greater Worcester Chapter, National Conference of Christians an
Jews.

MEMBER OF: Worcester County Bar Association,

During my happy college years, a vendetta between my father and

~~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 787

his business partners, both parties blood relatives, turned selection of a
career to the study of law.

While at Harvard Law School, the war years intervened, and in my
Army service I encountered some extraordinary experiences. Stateside
I served on the staff and faculty of the Security Intelligence Corps
School and later the Provost Marshal General School instructing both
OCS Candidates and C.I.D. Agents.

Immediately after the capture of Manila 1 was flown to the Philippines
and eventually became provost marshal of the Sulu Archipelago in the
Southern Philippines. In Sulu I was responsible for the training of a
battalion of Moro guerrillas whose mission was to establish and maintain
law and order. In the course of events the Sultan of Sulu first honored
me by giving me the highest civil title of Panglima, meaning governor-
at-large in his government with the right to grant Mohammedan di-
vorces; and subsequently, I was granted the hereditary title of Datu
Rajah Laut meaning prince king of the sea. From that moment on I was
minister of the navy and minister of war in the Sultan’s cabinet. For the
remainder of the time that I served in Sulu I often had to dodge the
Sultan’s insistent request of instituting a harem of my own. The history
of the Moros is replete with their great bravery and in the past they
were known for their piracy and as the scourge of the China Seas. A
friendship formed with their chief religious leader, who taught me
Arabic and the reading of the Koran, brought about the fruition of their
great dream — the formation among the Moros of an Islamic Congress.
My position as a provost marshal and as a Moro prince served as the
catalyst, and I helped to draft their constitution wherein for the first
time in Mohammedan history I procured the assent of the religious
leaders to the inclusion of the theory of excommunication denving re-
ligious and burial rights to those Moros who committed heinous crimes,
At one fell swoop this solved all our problems in regard to the estab-
lishment and maintenance of law and order. With pride and yet with a
sense of humility I herein quote the concluding paragraph of an editorial
that appeared in January, 1946, in the Sulu Sentinel:

“The formation of the Sulu Islamic Congress is a realization of a
dream. Years before the war, the leaders of the Mohammedan Church
in Sulu had visualized a body of ministers of the Islamic faith. But
dreams like promises can not come true of themselves. By mere
dreaming and wishing, nothing could be gotten or accomplished. Man,
and he alone, by using his innate faculties and inherent capabilines
vigorously and unremittingly can realize what he dreams or hopes.
Like a dream, the formation of the Islamic Congress slowly vanished
into the reali of illusions. But as luck had it, among the hberating
Americans, stood one who made into reality the dream of the many.
His unselfish interest in the Moro People and zeal and enthusiasm
in bringing about the formation of the Sulu Islamic Congress are
deserving and worthy of our highest praise and commendation. Lt.
Charles W. Patterson, when he shall have gone away, will be caking
with him the graticude of a grateful people. To hin we sav — A
GREAT WORK IS DONE. ,

Upon my leaving the Army, E completed law school and entered inta

“enacts mee

788 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

the practice of law. 1 became active in politics as a Republican and
entered the Massachusetts Legislature in 1954 and served for three
consecutive terms. During those six legislative years 1 won some atten-
tion for my opposition to pensions for legislators, for my refusal to
accept certain salary and expense account increases which the General
Court voted itself, and for my espousal of the referendum to end disabil-
ity pension abuses. 1 also fought for open meetings legislation as well
as for reasonable small loans law and a usury law.

As a member of the Eastern Orthodox Church, I take pride in the
fact that my faith was recognized as the fourth major faith in the
Commonwealth of Massachusetts while I served in the Legislature.
United States Senator Leverett Saltonstall at my request introduced a
bill in the United States Senate recognizing the Eastern Orthodox Faith
on “dog tags” issued to military personnel. I received, as a result, a
beautifully worded letter from the Patriarch of Constantinople, Athena-
goras 1, thanking me for my efforts which I treasure highly.

The vendetta in the family, after court proceedings were instituted,
was settled to the relative satisfaction of all parties concerned.

Presently, while reminiscing in my law office, in the Commerce
Building in Worcester, Massachusetts, and looking back over the inter-
vening twenty-five years, my life has been rich in memories of use-
fulness to people with whom I came in contact. I have endeavored to
be honest and forthright in my convictions and throughout I am grateful

for the love and understanding from my lovely wife who became a
devoted “Harvardian” from my junior year at the College.

WILLIAM RUSSELL PEABODY

 

HOME appress: 902 High St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Scudder, Stevens & Clark, 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939,

Manica: Phyllis Cary Randolph, April 1, 1944. cHipren: Phyllis Cary, July,
1945; Gail Codman, February, 1948. :

occupation: Investment counsel — general partner, Scudder, Stevens & Clark;
vice-president, assistant treasurer and director, Scudder, Stevens & Clark
Balanced Fund, Inc.

OFFIces HELD: Treasurer, Winsor School; assistant treasurer, Roxbury Neighbor-
hood House.

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 789

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Dedham Country & Polo Club; Annisquam Yacht
Club.

Upon graduation from college I entered the real estate business in
Boston and after one year went on active duty as a Reserve ensign in
the U.S. Navy. For roughly three years 1 served on board a seaplane
tender and for almost two years was first executive officer and then
commanding officer of a destroyer escort with the rank of lieutenant
commander.

In 1944 I had the good fortune to marry a lovely girl from Virginia
and at the end of World War II our first child, Cary, was born — she is
now a freshman at Vassar College. After completing a special course
at Harvard Business School we moved to Providence, Rhode Island,
where our second child, Gay, came along — she now has one more year
to go at Winsor School in Boston. While in Providence I was asso-
ciated with Scudder, Stevens & Clark and with the Rhode Island Hos-
pital ‘rust Company in the capacity of vice-president in the commercial
loan department. In 1955 we moved to Dedham, Massachusetts, and I
am now a general partner of Scudder, Stevens & Clark in Boston.

My work is extremely interesting and rewarding as are the various
extracurricular activities in which I am engaged. While I have given up
squash racquets, I manage to play tennis and golf regularly, both at
Dedham and at Annisquam, Massachusetts, where we have spent many
enjoyable summers.

Looking back over twenty-five years, life has been interesting and
exciting. We have enjoyed not only our old friends but many new
ones. Looking ahead I am confident that our nation and its economy

will move forward to even greater heights and hopefully this will be
in a time of world peace.

LEOPOLD PEAVY, JR.

    

HOME AppREsS: Tabor Hill Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Estabrook & Co,, 15 State St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, prcGREE: A.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Elizabeth Johnson, May 26, 1953. cHILoREN: Sara, April 13, 195
pold, 3d, Oct. 23, 1957, ,

occupation: Stockbroker.



790 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

OFFICES HELD: Member, Harvard Fund Council; member of corporation, Museum
of Science; trustee, Boston Lying-In Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Down Town Club; Hooper Golf Club,
Walpole, N.H.

Since graduating from college most of my life has been spent in the
business world. After being drafted early in 1941 I was in the USS.
Army five years, retiring as a captain in the Medical Administration
Corps. A little time at Hood Rubber and then the time at New Eng-
land Fritos, a wholesale food distributor, consumed my first ten years
following World War Il. After selling out my interest in Fritos, I have
been associated with Estabrook & Company, in the securities business.
This continues to be an exciting and happy experience.

In my spare time I try to do a little fund raising for Harvard, the
United Fund, etc., and on the weekends we head for our farm in Walpole,
New Hampshire, where we raise trees and do some snowshoeing.

Our children, Sara and Leopold, 3d, while still quite young, are
beginning to catch on, and I guess if I were to live these years over again,
there would be few changes. Our household is an easy and pleasant one,
thanks to my wife. We obviously prefer to live in New England, and I
guess we always will vote Republican.

FRED WELCH PEEL, JR.

 

HOME appreEss: 311 Martha’s Rd., Alexandria, Va.
OFFICE AppRESS: Alvord & Alvord, World Center Bldg., 918 16th St., N.W., Wash-

ington, D.C.
PREPARED AT: Danville High School, Danville, Ky.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREES: S.B., magna cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1942.
MARRIED: Evelyn Osovitz, Dec. 21, 1948. cxiup: Ellen, May 21, 1951.
OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner in law firm,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; National Capital Democratic Club;
Section of Taxation, American Bar Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Consolidated Tax Returns, Callaghan & Co., Chicago, 1959.

I graduated from Harvard Law School in 1942 and then spent three
and a half years in the Army, principally in Europe with OSS and in
Japan with the Strategic Bombing Survey. After working for the govern-
ment in Washington with the War Department, the Federal Housing
Administration, the Treasury Department, the Senate Finance Committee

792 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

opportunity to work in many of GE’s plants provided an excellent
foundation.

We moved to Milwaukee in late 1948, promoted to factory accountant
of G.E. X-Ray Corporation, and were there two years. When Bob Mc-
Namara became controller of Ford, | took a position as financial analyst
on his staff in Dearborn. Three years later one of Ford’s plant controllers
became controller of Curtiss-Wright, and I went along as his assistant.

After a year in CW’s corporate headquarters, I was promoted to con-
troller of the electronics division and thoroughly enjoyed my contribu-
tion to operating management as sales, product lines and profits grew
for five years,

We spent ten happy years in Ridgewood, New Jersey. Both Nancy
and I became quite active in church and community affairs as our chil-
dren, Nancy and John, progressed through good schools, We formed a
dance club of seventy-five couples which is still going strong, taught
Sunday school, became deacon, head usher and elder in the Presbyterian

church, moved up the ladder in the Community Chest to run the cam-
paign one year and act as president the following two years. Nancy was
active in the church choir, Girl Scouts and in the Ridgewood Choral, of
which she became president. We also took part in Boy Scout and Girl
Scout affairs and in the YMCA and YWCA. Plus a three-year stint as
class agent for the Harvard Business School Fund.

We set up a vacation travel program and with our youngsters went
on successive summers to Nova Scotia and the Gaspé; Grand Canyon,
Yellowstone and other western parks (a three-week camping trip); Lima,
Peru, Bogota and Jamaica; and Europe: Holland, Germany, Austria,
Switzerland, France, Belgium and London. Also visited Honolulu with

Nancy and spent two weeks in Australia.

My principal interest at work has been in financial planning and con-
trol. Thus when the opportunity came along to be assistant comptroller
of ITT, in charge of financial analysis, audit, and systems, I took it. De-
spite a number of major profit improvement results achieved over a

period of three years, this didn’t work out.

In August, 1963, | became controller of Joy Manufacturing Company,
and we moved to Pittsburgh. This is an interesting turn-around situation
to which I hope we can contribute. Just watch our smoke!

Trying to assess all this in retrospect, I feel that: My greatest satisfac-
tion has come from a normal, happy home life.

Now that material goals have been achieved, there is much to be done
to assist those less fortunate than ourselves. Challenges abound in the
backward countries, and even in our own country in small business, where

a combination of management capability and financial resources is badly
needed. Herein lies our future.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 793

FINLEY HUTTON PERRY

 

HOME ADDRESS: Pleasant Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Johnson, Clapp, Ives & King, 50 State St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1942.

MARRIED: Sylvia Stokes, Sept. 23, 1944. cHiLpREN: Finley Hutton, Jr., Oct. 2, 1946;
Francis Stokes, Jan. 9, 1949; Faith, July 17, 1952; Thomas Stokes, Sept. 9,

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

I enjoyed my studies at Harvard sufficiently to want to go on for
three more years at Harvard Law School. After being admitted to the
bar in Massachusetts in 1942, I spent three years during the war as an
attorney in the Office of Price Administration in Philadelphia, The
most satisfactory aspect of this experience is that it brought me to the
area where I could court and marry the one girl in the world who was
right for me and who has made my life a very happy one.

Returning to Boston in December, 1945, I became associated with the
law firm where I have been practising law ever since. My law practice
has been involved particularly with wills, trusts, probate and tax matters
but also has been involved with a great variety of other problems which
come up in a small firm carrying on a general practice in a large city.
The law is concerned with all of the many complicated aspects of man’s
relationships with his fellow man. There is little certainty in this field,
but there is a fascinating mixture of philosophy, psychology and religion
as well as logic, reason and precedent. Most of a lawyer’s practice is
and should be spent in an effort to protect his clients from having prob-
lems, but even if a lawyer can foresee and prevent most difficulties (1
know of none who are wholly successful in this), there are always new
clients (we hope) who have not had the wisdom to consult a lawyer in
advance and find themselves in need of extrication from a mess which
just happened and was, of course, not of their own making. Emotion
tends to obscure our vision in our relationships more than we realize and
this, I believe, is the cause of most of our problems in life as well as the
cause of much of our happiness.

Outside of the practice of law T have been active in home town
affairs, serving on a special zoning committee, on the town planning
board and on the conservation commission. I have also been active in

794+ HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

the Religious Society of Friends having served as treasurer of the New
England Yearly Meeting of Friends and clerk of the Wellesley Monthly
Meeting of Friends and being active on various committees of both
organizations, For a few years, some time back, I was on the board of
the Lend A Hand Society, treasurer of the local branch of the American
Friends Service Committee and at present I am serving on the board of
the James Jackson Putnam Children’s Center.

My favorite organizations are the Red Feather agencies, the United
Fund, the American Friends Service Committee, the United Nations and
Harvard, although it occurs to me that the latter is not necessarily the
best place for all persons under all circumstances to seek a general educa-
tion. My eldest son, with my full approval, will probably go elsewhere
to college, but with the graduate schools and with three more children
(girls may be included now) I hope that at least one of the four will get

some part of his or her education at the institution of which I am proud
to be a graduate.

JOHN HAZEN PERRY

    

HOME avpress: 8725 Blome Rd., Indian Hill, Cincinnati 43, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Procter & Gamble Co., P.O. Box 599, Cincinnati 1, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.; Asheville School, Asheville, N.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Frances Sortwell, June 30, 1939, CHILDREN: Priscilla Pollard, May 23,

1941; Adele, May 10, 1943; John Prince Hazen, Aug. 16, 1944; Frances, June
4, 1947; Cynthia, Dec. 5, 1950.

occupation: Division manager, Procter & Gamble Company, manufacturers of
consumer products.

OFFICES HELD: Republican Precinct executive, Hamilton County; member, Indian
Hill Village Council; director, Planned Parenthood Association.

MEMBER OF: Camargo Club; Harvard Club of Cincinnati; Cincinnati Racquet
Club; Commonwealth Club.

Immediately after graduation I married Bubbles Sortwell from Beverly
Farms, Massachusetts. After the usual two weeks in Bermuda I took my
first job with Pitney-Bowes in Boston, as a postage meter repairman.
Four years of soft living in Cambridge had rather spoiled me for this
sort of thing and after three months I quit to go into an insurance agency
with our classmate, Paul Counihan. Fifteen months later, just before

1

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 795

the starvation point was reached, I was inducted into active service in
January, 1941, with Battery A, 1orst F.A., 26th (Yankee) Division.

For the next five years I shared the adventures of the YD in World
War II, which included three and a half years of training, primarily in
the South, and the balance traveling through six countries in Europe in
pursuit of the Master Race. May 8, 1945, found us in Czechoslovakia,
somewhat weary but with the world once again saved for democracy, at
least pro tem.

Upon being discharged as a skinny and penniless major that fall with
three children and no job, I went to work for Procter & Gamble in
Boston, selling soap and other household commodities. This noble
profession I have pursued since, in New York from 1949 to 1954, and since
1954 in Cincinnau,

I am still married to the same wife, have added two more children since
the war, like living in Cincinnati, enjoy athletics both as spectator and
participant, have more to do each day than I can accomplish, am thus
reasonably happy, and have few profound thoughts on anything, being
fully occupied earning a living and raising a family.

Based on what has transpired so far I should like to live forever al-
though I consider it highly improbable.

SHELDON PAUL PETERFREUND

B.A LI OT OK AE a ES

  

HOME aAppress: 20 Erregger Terr., Syracuse, N.Y. 14224.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Philosophy Dept., Syracuse University, Syracuse 10, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Newport High School, Wanamie, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. necrees: s.a., 1939; aw. (Univ. of Chicago), 1940;
pH.p. (Univ. of Pennsylvania), 1948.

MARRIED: Josephine A. Rogowicz, 1949.

OccuUPATION: Professor of philosophy, Syracuse University,

MEMBER OF: American’ Philosophical Association; American Association of
University Professora.
PUBLICATIONS: Co-author, Great Traditions in Ethics; An Introduction to American

Philosophy; “Ethical Pluralism of TLV. Smith’; “The Status of Contemporary
Meta-Ethics.”

It is difficule to sum up twenty-five years, since events during that
span tend to coalesce and form a blurred picture, Nevertheless at least

796 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

this much is clear: some changes— physical, intellectual and social ~
have taken place in my life.

Although I still have a reasonable amount of hair, I have noticed, in

recent years, a thinning-out on top, receding hairlines in front and some
gray specks distributed throughout. I find that 1 don’t seem to be able
to stay up as late as 1 did in college and graduate school. One thing
that doesn’t change is the image I have of myself as that young man in
the 1939 Harvard Yearbook.

After graduation and completion of my Master’s degree, I entered the
service. I was an aerial navigator in the European theatre from 1943 to
1945. Returned to graduate school in 1946 and completed my doctorate
in 1948. Since that time, have been a college teacher. A few books and
articles constitute my academic contribution.

I've been very fortunate in my marriage. My wife and I have never
had any regrets about that momentous event. I have had my doubts

about the human race in general. Once in a while I wish the world
would stop and I could get off. But, even though the world picture is
depressing, I’m glad that P've had the opportunity to pass this way once.
Can't end this sketch without mentioning my favorite pastime — be-
ing a baseball fan. Have been an ardent Yankee rooter for years. I’ve

come to the conclusion that three things are inevitable: death, taxes and
Yankee pennants,

&
be

 

HOME appress: Franklin Street, R.F.D. 2, Duxbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cory Snow, Inc., 101 River Rd., Weston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., 1939.

marnieD: Liliane Florence Dorothy Boks, Sept. 15, 1950. curipREN: Hope Alix,
July 8, 1951; Carole Francoise, March 23, 1953; Pamela Anne, April
18, 1955.

occuPATION: Advertising account executive.
OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Capital Engraving Company, Boston, 1963; president,
Peters Engraving Company, Boston, 1947-5}

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

Like most of our class, the war conditions in Europe great] influenced
my first two years out of college. I was working with my father in the

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 797

family photo-engraving business, but owing to my Naval Reserve com-
mission from NROTC felt it was just a question of ame until events
caught up with me. I was in the 7th Fleet Division at New Bedford,
Massachusetts, and was mobilized in May, 1941, with three days’ notice.
I spent the war years on auxiliary vessels, two battleships, and ended up
as an amphibious staff officer in the Mediterranean. I saw much convoy
duty, two invasions and many new places in the European Theatre. 1
was released in 1945 without any injuries or major decorations.

I wied advertising briefly and then returned to the family photo-
engraving business which had merged with another firm and thus
largely lost its identity. My relations with the new management were
not overly pleasant, so in 1947 | established a new photo-engraving firm
which I operated until 1951. I had married Lilane Boks of Antwerp,
Belgium, in 1950 and was not progressing in a business sense.

I thought it best to make a fresh start and liquidated this enterprise
called Peters Engraving Company and started to sell engraving for
various firms. I have sold photo-engraving and related products since
that time, trying to learn more about merchandising in its various forms.
More recently | have changed my major endeavors to advertising which
seems to offer more possibilities than engraving. I trust that my various
skills will prove of value and that I shall finally settle down.

Since our marriage, we have lived for two years on Beacon Hill in
Boston and after the birth of our first daughter moved to a three-hun-
dred-year-old farm in Duxbury, Massachusetts. We have gradually tried
to rebuild and remodel our home and enjoy the community and our
family life. Probably the only semi-official position I have held was
Sunday School superintendent in St. John’s Episcopal Church in Dux-
bury. I have worked on various town committees but don’t believe any
of this worthy of mention. Until my wife’s father’s death in 1961, she
visited him almost yearly in Europe with the children. Since then we
have spent the summer in Duxbury, sending the children to various
camps.

Liliane has been teaching elementary school French in the Duxbury
school system since 1959 and has enjoyed this association to a large
extent. As we live in a seashore community, we have acquired an
auxiliary sloop for vacations, weekends and day sailing. We are not
doing any racing but merely use the boat for pleasure for the family.

Our children are in the Duxbury Public Schools at the present ume.
Next year will be the time of decision as to sending our children to
either day schools in this country or to boarding schools in Europe or
to continue in Duxbury,

The only hobby that I have enjoved after the war was my Naval
Reserve activities which terminated in 1961 when I was retired after
twenty-two years’ service, This hobby gave me many social and busi-
ness connections. I attended regular meetings and went on many train-
ing cruises.

The bright dreams have faded since leaving college. T think we all
do a certain amount of Soul searching as to the value of our vears in
college. I feel that it enriched my life in many waysy not only by

furnishing sources of knowledge, but, in my view, FE was given an
opportunity to observe life before facing the world. [do not have any

798 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

sons to send to college, but I still feel the University offers more than
any other center of education in the world.

RICHARD KIRK PFAFFLE

—!

   

HOME ADDRESS: 520 Countryside Drive, Wheaton, III.
PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936.

MARRIED: Margaret Wright, June 5, 1943. cnitp: Margaret Kirk, Jan. 31, 1945.

PAUL HENRY PFEIFFER

    

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Cherry Hill Terr., Waterville, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 14 Gilman St., Waterville, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: a.B., 1939; m.p., 1943.

Marnie: Valerie Preshrey, Oct. 2, 1943. cuitonen: Robert Howard, June 30, 1945;
Peter Henry, Oct. 11, 1947,

OCCUPATION: Physician, specializing in internal medicine and cardiology.

OFFICES HELD: Delegate, Democratic State Convention, 1961, American Medical
Association; chairman, Committee on Recruitment Aid and Placement, Maine
Medica] Association; president, Maine Society of Internal Medicine.

MEMBER OF: Federation of Clinical Research; Boylston Medical Society; Kappa
Eta Psi.

PUBLICATIONS: Six publications in medical journals,

After graduating from Harvard College with a mediocre scholastic

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 799

record (on pro twice for poor grades) was put on waiting list and finally
accepted by the Harvard Medical School (the alternative was Yale).
Went gung ho and signed up for Navy pre Pearl Harbor but was allowed
to graduate 1943 and complete a nine-month internship at Boston City
Hospital. Was granted four days in last month to get married. Off to
South Seas with PT Boats. Discharged June, 1946. Continued medical
training until 1950 at the Boston City Hospital and Memorial Hospital in
New York. Went into practice in Danbury, Connecticut, 1950, as
specialist in internal medicine. Cold reception by general practitioners
caused removal to California in 1952 (gross income in $1000 range).
Spent two and a half years at the Permanente Institute in California with
wife and by now two sons. Semi-socialized medicine atmosphere palled
after a bit. Wife (New England girl) hated the bumper-to-bumper,
cook-out, smooth-climate living. Returned to Maine in 1955, to a 22,000
population, college (Colby), Hathaway-shirt-making town (Waterville).
Friendly people both medically and socially and various activities have
made life so busy since that there has been little time to reflect on much
of anything (intellect may not be suited for such activity anyway). The
boys have grown up and exploded into “teenism.” One managed to
survive four years at Exeter and is entering Bowdoin. The other is pro-
ceeding cautiously through local private and public schools.

My wife has become a gardener and antique furniture refinisher and
in spite of an active social life she saves enough money by not buying
hats, never going to the hairdresser or hiring a cleaning woman that I
take her to Europe every three or four years. We also square dance, ski
together at nearby Sugar Loaf and go to New York two or three times
a year for an orgy of plays and foreign films.

Seven years ago we made the tremendous sacrifice of having the TV
set removed from the cellar with the result that my wife reads enough to
keep me abreast of current literature and I get a chance to read a few
things in medicine and cardiology and publish occasionally, Hospital
committee and clinic work, postgraduate education exercises, trips to
medical meetings (as delegate to the American Medical Association for
the State of Maine, delegate to the Maine Medical Association from the
county society, chairman of the committee on Medical Fducation, past
president of the Maine Society of Internal Medicine and associate in the
College of Physicians) manage to fill the idle hours left over from the
demands of a fairly busy practice in internal medicine and cardiology,
My political activity has been limited. However, two years ago [was a
delegate to the State Democratic Convention and my wite was my charm-
ing alternate, Perhaps in the waning years we will be able to amplity this
type of activity and be better citizens for it.

Av social beliefs are rather vague. [like people who are self-reliant
and 1 don't like to be told what to do, vet EP realize that due to human
crowding we have to have some sort of government controls or there
would be anarchy. Let's face it, if we don’t want to live lke ants and
bees we must have birth control, My political faith les somewhere be-
tween @ conservative Democrat and a liberal Republican, My favorire
senators are James Dutf, Frank Cave and Paul Douglas. Civil euches mast
come soon and fast unless we want te fight the cial wae all over again.
However much we dolke their leader, sooner of later we are going to

800 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

have to stop plaving ostrich and recognize the existence of 600 million
human beings whose eyes slant at a different angle than ours.

My religious activity consists in going to the Harvard Chapel five or
six times a year mostly for intellectual stimulation, Somehow it never
ceases to appall me that the hour of eleven to twelve noon on Sunday is
the most segregated hour of the week. Particularly when I think of the
beautiful simple faith of Uncle Tom.

Automation may spell ruination for this country. The enforced idle-
ness of the young coupled with the deluge of prurient literature and

assive entertainment they are exposed to is leading to a state of immora]-
ity and crime that is becoming intolerable.

We need more people like E. B. White and John Kieran to show us
how to enjoy the real beauties and wonders of this little globe.

SHIRLEY SEAVEY PHILBRICK, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 278 Hillside Ave., Mill Valley, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Crown Zellerbach Corp., 1 Bush St., San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. bEGREES: A.B., 1939; m.p.a., 1941.

MARRIED: Emily Browning, August, 194] (divorced 1958); Virginia E. Orkney,
Aug. 8, 1961. cHiLpREN: Sharon C., April 10, 1943; Wendy J., Sept. 17, 1944;
David Alan, April 20, 1948; Loren King, Dec. 9, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Supervisor, Group Insurance, Crown Zellerbach Corporation, manu-
facturers of paper and forestry products.

As one approaches the quarter-century milestone he is shocked by the
rapidity of passing time! Twenty-five years ago 1964 seemed an eternity;
now that it is here 1939 is but yesterday!

These have been twenty-five busy years... years which have been
marked with successes and disappointments ... successes and disap-
pointments which I hope will yield a richer, fuller, more satisfying life
both in the present and during the years to come.

Armed with an M.B.A. from the Business School my introduction to
the business world and the paper industry came in 1941 at the Phila-

delphia plant of Container Corporation of America. After a year and a
half of quality control work, I used a three-year stint as a Naval Supply
Corps officer as an excuse to relocate on the Pacific Coast . . . going to
work for my present employer, Crown Zcllerbach Corporation, at its

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 801

Camas, Washington, paper mill late in 1945. Subsequent moves brought
me to the company’s headquarters office in San Francisco where | have

had a variety of assignments: industrial sales, market research, assistant
to the financial vice-president, stockholder relations, and now for a
number of years in charge of the company’s group insurance programs
covering some 18,000 employees located in the company’s many plants
throughout the United States. The position, part of the company’s in-
dustrial relations program, has many satisfactions and rewards which
come from being able to help people meet the many crises that life
brings.

Since coming to the San Francisco Bay Area home has been in Mill
Valley, a delightful community which allows one the luxury of enjoying
the ever-changing beauty of the daily commute across the Golden Gate.
Community activities have included the usual participation on church
boards, school committees, and taking an active part in Toastmasters and
Cub and Boy Scout activities.

As for progeny ... Sherry is midway through the University of
California at Berkeley, having transferred from Antioch College in ‘Yel-
low Springs, Ohio; Wendy is a sophomore at Radcliffe; Dav id, an Eagle
Scout, is a sophomore at Berkeley High; Larry is in the wonderful care-
free world of a fifth-grader; and well before this is in print we are look-
ing forward to a new member of the tribe who will help to keep us
young in heart and spirit.

As for the present and future ... both are centered on Virginia
Orkney Philbrick who is the product of Mississippi, Mary Washington
College in Virginia and the University of Oregon. Virginia teaches
American history at College of Marin, one of California’s junior colleges
which fill a real need in the state’s educational system. She is a real
booster when life’s problems become burdensome, and her presence gives
a purpose to one’s daily efforts to do the best one can at work and at

play.

ROBERT JAY PHILIPS

122g OGRA Cate St, eR HIRE OSS

    

HOME AbpreEss: 54 Bonwit Re. Rye, N-Y,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 565 Fifth Ave, New York, N.Y,

PREPARED AT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, NVY.
YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1935-19389, DEGREES! AB, 19395 Lip, LOB.

802 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

marrizp: Deborah Benjamin, May 13, 1953. criLorEN: Lawrence, Aug. 14, 1954;

Rise, Aug. 6, 1960,
OCCUPATION: Lawyer.
MEMBER OF: Bar Association of the City of New York.

I have been practising law for almost twenty years; my own boss for
some sixteen, This is not such a long time since law is a profession which
vou learn in chunks and pieces over a whole lifetime. Often what you
didn’t know is only apparent to yourself, and then only in retrospect.
Many phases of it, such as a really good cross-examination, are in the
realm of the arts, but it is an art written on the wind. It is a performing
art with no script and an irrational criterion. No coach reruns the plays
on film. The result is all that counts. If you won the case, you were a
genius; if you lost, a bum. In this performing art the supreme accolade
is if a client you lost for engages you again.

Seriously though, the practice of law has a deeper meaning than all
this. Law is more than a buttering up of clients and a pursuit of the buck.
You come to appreciate, in spite of yourself, that the law is a servant of
no client but only of truth and you define truth with the kind of integrity
which is the measure of yourself. What I am trying to say is that each
lawyer brings to the definition of truth only that amount of integrity
which he possesses and is capable of understanding. How he fulfills this
function equates what he is.

I'm afraid these abstractions explain nothing. What I mean in more
concrete terms is that a young lawyer tends to pursue cheap victories
through what he thinks are easy roads, “Emphasize that,” he may tell a
client, ‘‘never admit this.” Experience, however, should teach him that
short cuts through the woods are dangerous. There are snipers in every
tree. The witness who doesn’t tell the whole truth on direct is a fearful,
anxious witness on cross. Experience teaches you to love the truth, if
perhaps not out of principle, at least out of expediency and a maturing
technique. If my client is telling the truth, he cannot be destroyed by my
adversary no matter how brilliant a lawyer he is. A young lawyer might
gradually come to discover that often the truth he used to hide if cor-
rectly presented and correctly understood could be the main strength of
his case. This is more than saying that he had learned to make virtues of
his weaknesses. It is perhaps only restating the obvious that the client's
cause can best be served by scrupulously respecting the facts and finding
the true principle of law which governs such facts.

One of my best moments came in a case that seemed certainly destined
for defeat if the facts were honestly presented to the court. This was
because there were a series of similar cases going back to the Civil War
where on almost identical facts the courts had repeatedly enunciated a
doctrine which if applied to this case would mean that we would lose.
We did not try to distort the facts. We studied the law instead and found
that the original American decision was based upon an English precedent
which the original Civil War judge had misconstrued and misapplied.
The mistake had been followed ever after without any critical apprecia-
tion of the point of law involved. However, once it was pointed out, it
was obvious and we prevailed.

Outside of the office my family is my whole life. I know that these are
the golden years right now, while my children are still children and |

~~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 803

can hang around with them on Saturdays and Sundays. At this moment
my nine-year-old is looking forward to the pre-reunion at Cambridge
for the Princeton game with great anticipation. It will be his first Har-
vard game and first time in Cambridge, although he knows all about Y.A.
Tittle and the New York Giants.

GEORGE WENDELL PHILLIPS

   

HOME ADDRESS: 6744 Brigadoon Drive, Bethesda, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Agency for International Development, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecrReEEs: s.B., 1939; m.p.a. (Syracuse Univ.), 1953.

MARRIED: Wilma Eldersveld, April 2, 1949. cui_pren: David, June 2, 1951; Bruce,
Aug. 31, 1954; Nancy, Feb. 18, 1957.

occupation: Deputy Chief, Industrial Development Div., Bureau for Latin America,
A.I.D. agency. We administer technical assistance programs in the fields of
industrial, commercial, and transportation development throughout Latin
America under the Alliance for Progress.

OFFICES HELD: Choir Director, River Road Unitarian Church, Bethesda, Md., since
1962.

MEMBER OF: American Society for Public Administration; American Veterans
Committee; various community and musical organizations over the years.

My life as an alumnus started pretty low. Having failed at the last
moment to complete my honors work, I left Cambridge not knowing
what I wanted to do, or where. After an abortive start in the lingerie
business, I joined Frank Davidson, ’39, Enno Hobbing, ’40, and others
in the “Camp William James” effort to create something like the moral
equivalent for war out of the Civilian Conservation Corps, then in its
declining years. The idea was good, and we all worked with real en-
thusiasm, but after only a year or so the shooting war began, and all the
boys took off. I became an Air Force mechanic, maintenance officer,
and then flight engincer on a B-29, bombing the cities of Japan from
Guam. I got just as scared of flak and searchlights as the next guy (may-
be a little more so) but survived twenty-seven missions perfectly well.

Civilian life faced me with the vocation question, which | solved more
happily this time by going into administrative methods work for Henry
Kaiser, then taking over the Willow Run plant. Living in nearby Ann
Arbor was good, too, after 1 met and married Wilma Eldersveld. Psv-
chologist, cook, interior decorator, and (later) mother of three, all first

804 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939
class, she has stuck bravely by me (and I by her) through all the ups and

downs of family life, as we (and all of our honest friends) have ex-
perienced it.

By ’49 I was worried by Kaiser's deteriorating position in the auto
industry, and increasingly dubious about the social values of his paternal-
istic methods. So we reviewed the vocation question and decided upon
a careef in government. I started by taking a Master’s degree in Public
Administration at the Maxwell School, Syracuse, then off to the Atomic
Energy Commission, the glamor agency of the day. I stayed for twelve
years, working up through a whole series of fascinating administrative
jobs, almost all in Washington. We loved the town from the first, and
Wilma went to work here, too, in psychological research at the National
Institutes of Health.

Hers was part time because our kids began to arrive in 1951. This
started off another chain of events, too complex and personal to go into
here, during which we got to know the doctors and hospitals of the area
all too well. By now, though, we are in good shape; the kids are full of
life (all the time), love (most of the time) and we enjoy them mightily.
We also are happy with the contemporary home we built ourselves on
a wooded hillside lot in Bethesda with a view of the Virginia hills.

Last spring 1 decided twelve years was enough and switched over to
the A.LD. agency, Latin American Bureau, which was (and still is)
struggling through a major overhaul. I found the Alliance for Progress
very appealing, and the work exciting. But the reorganization of a going
concern is tough, even in private business, and Civil Service regulations
make it far worse. The job is still far from complete, but in our area,
technical assistance, we have made solid progress. My job, at the moment,
is Deputy Chief of Industrial Development. It’s hard work, getting things
done in an outfit like this, but we are making a real college try, and when-
ever we chalk up a success, it feels good. Whether anything as am-

bitious as the Alliance can succeed, on schedule or at any time, is another

question, of course.
To get away from the office and the backyard roughhouse with all the
neighborhood small fry, my number one passion is fishing. There’s lots

of good water, salt and fresh, within reach of our canoe, Wintertimes I

direct the choir at the Unitarian Church. In a little more than a year,

with the help of several Harvard Glee Club alumni, we have built up a

good group. Last spring, when the Club came down from Cambridge

for a concert we held a memorable night-before musicale with two gen-
erations of HGC men and their ladies,

As for the future, our plans aren’t completely charted, yet. We will
probably try at least one hitch overseas for A.LD., as a sample; and in
preparation Pve been studying Spanish. After that, we don’t know. It’s
a big world. Wilma and I feel it still holds plenty of opportunities for

both of us (not to mention the kids). We mean to realize some of them
and to have ourselves a good time in the process,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 805

HARDY PHIPPEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 255 Aran Hill Rd., Fairfield, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Carreau, Smith, McDowell & Dimond, Inc., 207 State St., Bridge-
port, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Clementine Hobbs, March 16, 1944. cutLpren: Hardy, Jr., July 9, 1946;
Helen, June 29, 1948; Lawrence Hobbs, Nov. 17, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Stockbroker; registered representative, New York Stock Exchange;
member of firm, Carreau, Smith, McDowell & Dimond, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Board member, YMCA, Fairfield, Conn., since 1959; swimming
coach, YMCA, Westport, Conn., since 1959; vice-president, Fairfield County
Swimming League, since 1962; member, executive committee, Fathers Club,
Fairfield Country Day School.

MEMBER OF: Algonquin Club, Bridgeport, Conn.; Harvard Club of Southern Con-
necticut; Black Rock Yacht Club, Bridgeport; Fairfield YMCA; Westport
YMCA.

After graduating I went to work for A. Milne and Company in Boston,
a tool steel sales company, until I was drafted into the Army on January
19, 1941. I served in the Quartermaster Corps and Ordnance Corps as
second lieutenant for one and a half years after receiving my commission
in Officer Candidate School, Class 5, in 1942. In 1943 I transferred to
the Air Corps and received my pilot wings in March, 1944, at which time
I was married. I joined the 62d Troop Carrier Command of the Twelfth
Air Force and flew transports all over the Mediterranean area of Europe
for one and a half years, being based in Italy most of the time. While
flying missions over enemy-held territory, I received the Air Medal with
three clusters.

In December, 1945, I became a civilian again and moved to Chicago,
Illinois, where all three of my children were born. I switched jobs there
in 1948 from A. Milne and Company to Signode Steel Strapping Com-
pany as salesman and was transferred to Connecticut in 1950. In 1960 I
became a stockbroker in Bridgeport where I am today with Carreau,
Smith, McDowell & Dimond.

I have a seventeen-year-old son in Andover, Class of 1964, and hope
he will make Harvard; a daughter, fifteen, going to Roger Ludlowe
High School in Fairfield as a sophomore; and a second son, fourteen, who
is in eighth grade at Fairfield Country Day School. My waite and FT are
both active in local charitable organizations and with the children spend

806 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

most of our time summers enjoying Black Rock Yacht Club in Bridgeport
sailing, swimming, and playing tennis, This past summer of 1963 all five
of us sailed to Europe and toured Southern England, Belgium, France,
and Italy for four weeks in our own car.

Hobbies consist of backyard vegetable gardening (principally weed-
ing out the rabbits, chucks, and possum) and swimming. As coach of
the Westport YMCA boys, thirteen-to-fourteen-year old team (on
which my younger son, Larry, is one of the stars), I have been quite
busy with YMCA and AAU winter programs and Fairfield County
Club swimming in the summer season.

My political convictions are fundamentally Republican and somewhat
conservative. I feel the Kennedy administration in Washington will do
their best to make this a welfare state and our dollars worth less. Although
I will enjoy the fruits of the tax cut, I chink it an irresponsible fiscal act
in view of the huge government spending programs. I also feel that in
spite of the ideological aspects of the situation, we are utterly foolish not
to allow Red China to be heard in the United Nations. Unless we at
least talk with this potentially great world power, how can we under-

stand them and, more important, how can we get them to understand us?

My entire family and J are looking forward to a grand Twenty-fifth.

ROBERT JORDAINE PHIPPEN +

 

LAST MAILING AbDpREsS; 31 Chestnut St., Salem, Mass,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 807

ANTHONY PATRICK PICKMAN

—

   

  
  

‘ana “me

HOME ADpRESS: Concord Road, South Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Peter Gray Corp., 286 Third St., Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: 8.B., 1939.

MarRiED: Alice Page Loring, Sept. 27, 1941. cHitpREN: Daisy Page, June 21, 1946;
Allan Loring, July 7, 1948; Caroline Terry, Aug. 3, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president — sales, industrial and automotive products and con-
tract manufacturing in sheet metal.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, member, executive committee, Longy School of
Music, Cambridge; corporation member, Emerson Hospital, Concord, Mass.

Resisted idea of becoming a salesman — that line of least resistance —
merely out of a spirit of independence. Tried aviation, electronics and
here | am a salesman — but am enjoying it, in spite of myself. Only

trouble is— no long academic vacations to indulge my first love (ahem!
is Alice listening? ) — the sea.

CHARLTON DAVID PIERCE

LOST. LAST KNOWN AbDoREsS: % Ella L. Brown, P.O. Box 33, Tilton, N.H.



808 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

DANA HUNTINGTON PIERCE +

 
  

LAST MAILING appRESS: 1106 Ynez Ave., Redondo Beach, Calif.

ROGER PIERCE, JR.

  

HOME ApprEss: 68 Milk St., Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State Street Bank & Trust Co., 111 Franklin St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., 1939.

marrieD: Rosamond Sabine, June 17, 1951 (died July 21, 1959); Ellen Rhodes
MacLaurin, Dec. 8, 1962. CHILDREN: Roger, 3d, May 22, 1952; Mary Sabine,
Sept. 30, 1953; Sheila MacLaurin, July 23, 1942; Peter Jerome MacLaurin,

Aug. 2, 1944; Richard Neil MacLaurin, Dec. 2, 1947; Colin MacLaurin,
Dec, 9, 1953.

occupaTION: Banking; assistant treasurer, State Street Bank & Trust Company.
OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Charles River School,
MEMBER OF: Dedham Country & Polo Club.

The first few years after graduation saw a certain amount of shifting
and travel. At first there were two years in the food canning business
in Portland, Maine. Then came the war, with service in the American
Field Service as a volunteer ambulance driver attached to the British
Forces in the Middle East, followed by tour of duty with the American
Army in Europe. I returned to native Boston after the war, working in
the wool business for eight years. The first years were enjoyable as the

810 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Despite the record of man’s inhumanity to man which has marked the
twenty-five years cov ered by this Report, my wife and I maintain our
optimistic faith in the power of intelligence and reason to solve the
world’s problems and to assure a better life for our children. This is
not an ex post facto rationalization for the fact that we have done our
share to provoke a world-wide population explosion, but a reflection
of the ideals and faith which seem to motivate them, a product of the
respect we have for the high standards of multitudes of friends, and a
result of meetings with men and women of good will and ability we have
met in many countries of this globe. Perhaps most of all, our optimism
springs from the excellent education we were exposed to at Harvard
and Vassar (Edith was 43) which provided a vantage point from which
most problems can be viewed in perspective, proper or otherwise. We
are Republicans, but independent, conservative in economics, less so in
social and political affairs. We don’t think much of American politi-
cians in general, but have enormous respect for the few who deserve
the title in its best sense. We do what we can to help the latter, and
let them know what we think.

Socially, we find that as tme has passed we spend less time with
people w ‘ho aren't interested in the world around them, more with those
who are involved in and committed to the major struggles in our com-
munity and country. Edith’s career to date has been restricted to raising
five wonderful children (Judith is at Middlebury, Jonathan at Andover,
Dorothy and Margaret at New Canaan Country School, and Nina 1s
in a Darien public school), but she has been most active in the commu-
nity and is now looking into possibilities for a career of her own. My
twenty-five years have been devoted to education but in a_ business
environment, Public relations has given me rewarding opportunities to
be a part of some great efforts dedicated to building understanding among

people, to win passage of legislation benefiting large numbers of people,
and to help broaden understanding of how to get things done more
effectively in all areas of human activity.

On graduation in 1939 I spent two years with General Motors, travel-
ing all over the United States taking a message of progress through
research to audiences of all types. Though President Conant recom-
mended me to the Marines in 1941, the latter wanted 20/20 vision in
both eyes, so 1 worked a year in the purchasing department of a defense
plant (long enough to know that I preferred public relations), then
joined the roth Mountain Infantry. The skiing was fine, combat was
inspiring in that it showed that an outfit composed of highly educated
men could be as tough as any military unit in any service as well as
smart enough not to get mauled, and our marriage in the middle of it
all gave the war more purpose for me.

Postwar, I did a stint of newspapering on the Springfield (Massachu-
setts) Daily News as background for a career in public relations, then
spent four happy years in Worcester, my home town, running an
organization dedicated to building understanding in the greater Worces-
ter area of how the private enterprise system works for the benefit of
all affected by it. This successful endeavor led me to the larger scene
in New York where I have been ever since. For five years I labored in
the public relations vineyard with a counseling firm, then switched to

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT SII

an association and was charged with securing legislation to broaden the
rights of mutual savings institutions,

The corporate world intrigued me, and I cast my lot with a major
east coast brewery which had fallen on hard times but seemed capable
of resuscitation. Two years later, sadder but wiser, I joined one of
the largest public relations counseling organizations in charge of organ-
ization and planning which led in turn to my present responsibilities. |
think Pve found my field — using the skills and techniques of communi-
cation and persuasion as the core of good management. Which brings
me back to where I started some words ago: | am optimistic about the
future if we can manage ourselves and our affairs better and communi-
cate to others what we are doing and why.

As for what we do as family, we ski, sail, garden and swim, as well
as talk, enjoy music and go to the theatre and other fine arts. We’re
busy, so we don’t have troubles to report, and we look forward to

meeting a daughter-in-law and four sons-in-law. But more about that
in later Class Reports!

HAROLD LEE PINANSKY +

 
  

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 462 Cumberland Ave., Portland, Maine.

HOWARD PIPER

812 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HoME appress: 980 E. Water St., Lock Haven, Pa.
orice aDpRESS: Piper Aircraft Corp., Lock Haven, Pa.

pREPARED AT: Bradford High School, Bradford, Pa.; Fort Lauderdale High School,
Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. prcREE: s.B., 1939,

marnteD: Helen L. Wann, Dec. 29, 1939. cuipren: David Wann, Feb. 27, 1941;

Dan, July 27, 1943 (died May 28, 1961) ; Patricia E., Nov. 27, 1946; Howard,
Jr., Jan. 7, 1948.

HARVARD SON: David Wann Piper, 62.

occupation: Vice-president, Research & Development, Piper Aircraft Corporation,

Lock Haven, Pa.; general manager, Vero Beach plant, Piper Aircraft Corpora-
tion, Florida.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in aviation magazines,

Except for three and a third years of naval aviation from 1942 to
1945, our family life since 1939 has been spent principally in Lock
Haven, where our main plant is located. .

It has been a fine life in general, although there have been more than
the usual ups and downs, perhaps, Business life has been very reward-
ing. In my situation, flying can be and is a vocation, a very pleasurable
avocation, and a means of fairly extensive travel. Our company, since
we really started moving in 1952, has come up from an annual volume
of about $3,500,000 to a current volume of about twelve times that, and
this has been quite satisfying. Furthermore, it apparently has a long,
long way to go, so business activity should continue to be fascinating.

We have had some fine experiences in bringing up our children, in-
cluding a lot of travel with them to Cuba (some years ago), Mexico,
Europe and around. We have also had a real tragedy. Our second son,
Dan, was a fine outstanding boy. He had been admitted to both Har-
vard and Princeton at the end of his senior year at high school. He

was also getting to be an excellent pilot and showing a strong interest
in our business, a special source of satisfaction to me. During a trip
back from looking over Harvard, he fell asleep and flew one of our
airplanes into a mountain. This sort of tragedy stays with the family
permanently.

The other three children—and how we wish we had about six
instead of four —will also be strong sources of satisfaction, or already
have been. Our eldest son entered Harvard in 1958 with an honorary
Harvard scholarship, but Harvard proved unsuitable for him, or vice
versa. No doubt I'm badly prejudiced, but my impression of Harvard
while he was there was not very favorable. I chink this is an important
point to bring out, because obviously Harvard alumni should be sharing
views on how their college is progressing.

From 1935 to 1939, Harvard seemed a wonderful place to me — the
best there was. Now I’m not at all sure I’d want to go there, even if
they would admit me. Sloppy looking students, run-down buildings
here and there, messy rooms, an excess of odd looking characters — it
doesn’t impress me at all well in che more or less cursory observations
that I have been able to make. The drug experimentation stories haven’t
helped any. It scems to me that academic and social liberties can be and
have been carried much too far.

It is to be hoped that closer scrutiny at the time of the z sth Reunion
may tend to change this viewpoint.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 813

MALCOLM PIRNIE, JR.

    

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Windsor Lane, Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Malcolm Pirnie Engineers, 522 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y. 10036.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEcREES: a.B., 1939; spe. 1941.

MARRIED: Jane Purse, November, 1942. cHitpREN: Malcolm, 3d, Oct. 22, 1945;
Pamela Joyce, Oct. 17, 1947.

occupaTion: Consulting engineer; partner.

OFFICES HELD: Director, 1957-57, vice-president, 1960-62, president, 1962-63,
Metropolitan Section, ASCE; vice-president, Harvard Engineering Society,
1955; president, Berkeley-In-Scarsdale Association, 1952-53; member of Coun-
cil, AICE, 1964-66.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Civil Engineers; American Institute of Consult-
ing Engineers; American Water Works Association; Harvard Engineering
Society; Technical Association of the Pulp & Paper Industry; American
Academy of Sanitary Engineers; Florida Engineering Society; Engineers
Joint Council; Engineers Council for Professional Development; USA Section
of Inter-American Association of Sanitary Engineering; National Rivers &
Harbors Congress; American Shore & Beach Preservation Association; Manur-

sing Island Club (Rye, N.Y.); Harvard Club of New York; The Town
(Scarsdale).

PUBLICATIONS: “Designing for Flexible Plant Operation,” October, 1955; “Deink-
ing Wastes Effluent Loadings & Treatment Requirements,” June, 1962;
“Design and Cost Considerations for Treatment of Deinking Wastes,” July,
1962; “Backwashing of Screens Made Easy,” July, 1962; “Telstar and the
Water Business,” October, 1962.

Graduation, with war looming over the horizon, posed some questions.
After considering seriously employment in the Dutch East Indies and a
graduate course at Stanford, I chose training in the Graduate School of
Sanitary Engineering at Harvard.

Skiing had always interfered with proper pursuit of a cum laude,
at least I like to think so. After midyears in January, 1940, a broken leg
acquired while skiing near North Conway delayed completion of my
graduate requirements, and I did not receive my S.M. until Mav, 1o4t.

Shortly thereafter, I was commissioned in the U.S. Public Health
Service, and after some preliminary training in Maryland and Virginia,
was attached to the 97th Engineers in Alaska. These were mostly col-
ored troops from Georgia assigned to construct the northern end of the
Alaska Highway!

In 1942, a kindly superior officer maneuvered a trip to Seattle for me,

814 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

with leave en route, which allowed the opportunity for marriage and
a brief wedding trip. Unfortunately, that same superior officer was
killed just before Christmas, and Jane and I spent our first holidays
together caring for his family.

During the first two years of the war, I covered almost all of Alaska,
but particularly the Alaska Highway. Jane found a job with a con-
tractor in White Horse, and we were able to spend some time together.
The final two years of the war, | was attached to the District Office in
San Francisco, and there our “native” son, Skip, was born in 1945.

Immediately after the war, I joined Malcolm Pirnie Engineers and
became a partner in 1952. We lived in Palm Beach, Florida, for a year and
spent a few months in Roanoke, Virginia, but otherwise have made our
home in Scarsdale, New York. Our second child, Pamela, was born
here in 1947.

Malcolm Pirnie Engineers is a consulting engineering firm specializing
in water supply and waste disposal reports, design and supervision of

construction. We provide expert services for court work and do a great
deal of utility rate work. Our experience includes commissions in forty
states and on four continents. This has afforded me an opportunity to
meet and know people in such widely separated spots as Rangoon, Beirut,

Guayaquil and Denver, What vacation time there is has been spent on

Squam Lake in New Hampshire where we have all learned to ski behind

our Dorsett jet runabout.

Skip will be graduating this June from the Winchendon (Massachu-
setts) School and at this writing, of course, does not know which of his
college applications will be successful. Pam is attending the Searing
School in New York and has another year before any college decision
must be made.

BENJAMIN PITMAN, JR. +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 1945 Glen Ridge Rd., Escondido, Calif

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 81 5

NATHAN MICHAEL PLAUT

 

HOME aAbprEss: Peg Shop Road, Keene, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Faulkner, Plaut, Hanna & Zimmerman, 5 St. James St., Keene, N.H,

PREPARED AT: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREES: aA.B., 1939(38); Lue. (Univ. of Michi-
gan), 1941.

MARRIED: Mary Brooks Hollis, Jr.. Aug. 16, 1945. cHILDREN: Alice Brooks, Qct.
13, 1953; James Hollis, Sept. 30, 1954.

occuPATION: Lawyer, engaged in general practice.

OFFICES HELD: Admitted to practice in Ohio, 194], Massachusetts, 1946, New
Hampshire, 1947, U.S. District Court of New Hampshire, 1948; delegate,
New Hampshire Constitutional Convention, 1946, 1956, 1959; member, since
1962, vice-chairman, 1963, Keene School Board; chairman, Committee on
Continuing Legal Education, New Hampshire Bar Association, 1961-62; Board
of Visitors, University of Michigan Law School, 1962, 1963; president, Harvard
Club of New Hampshire, 1958-60; Cheshire County Bar Association, 1961-62;
member, Board of Governors, Harvard Law School Association of New Hamp-
shire, 1961-64; director, Keene Community Chest, Keene Regional Forum,
Keene Regional Industrial Foundation, Ine. New Hampshire Children’s
Aid Society.

MEMBER OF: Boston, American and New Hampshire Bar Associations; International
Association of Insurance Counsel; American College of Probate Counsel
(fellow) ; Harvard Clubs of New Hampshire and Boston; Keene Rotary
Club; Keene Country Club.

As a country lawyer I don’t have public relations counsellors, script
men, ghost writers or even junior associates to help me write an “auto-
biographical sketch.” Nor do I consider this to be the time in life to be
an autobiographer, a writer of memoirs or even of an obituary.

Law school (including a year at Harvard Law School as a special
student) and the Marine Corps kept me occupied and preoccupied until
1946. Both were educational to say the least. Married life (one wife
and two children), community affairs, peripheral political activities and
the practice of law have been my constant interests and happy ones, The
more or less relaxed life we've led and are leading in this New England
“shire town” is, I’m told, quite a bit different from the lives of many
classmates whose endeavours have kept them in and around the large
metropolitan centers of the world.

The best way to characterize my law practice seems to be that T work
with many people and their problems — not j just w ith problems. When
any problem becomes too complex, as sometimes happens in our in-

816 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

creasingly sophisticated and compartmented society, I’ve learned to refer
to and rely on the specialist. He, whatever field he’s working in, has
my greatest respect, but I wouldn’t trade places with him.

Philosophically, I remain eternally optimistic about the future of this
country and of the human race —though I admit to some doubts this
fall when Lincoln's fate befell Kennedy and lynch law — not due process
—came to the fore under the scrutiny of world-wide television and
press coverage. .

Nevertheless, and despite these morbid episodes and almost daily con-
sideration of the many problems which confront all of us, such as Com-
munism, Common Markets, Castro, Cambodia, Casa Nostra, Christine
Keeler and corruption, I’m looking forward to the next twenty-five
years with high hopes.

‘

SO RRR EPO BG FF OTR EOE

ae

gE pr

   

HOME ADDRESS: 1425 Ravina Rd., West Lafayette, Ind.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Purdue University, West Lafayette, Ind.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: a.B., summa cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1940;
PH.D., 1942, ,

MARRIED: Helen May Rickard, May 13, 1943. cHILDREN: Joel, Feb. 28, 1944; Carl
Jesse, July 28, 1947; Betsy Helen, Sept. 17, 1951; Harry Seth, Feb, 13, 1955;
Amy Hester, Feb. 25, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Professor of mathematics, Purdue University.

MEMBER OF: American Mathematical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Mathematical books and research papers,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 817

HENRY LAWRENCE POOL

   

 

pai fh : 1. edie .. ii

porN: June 11, 1917, San Francisco, Calif. parents: William Henry Pool, Isabelle
Sprague.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-—1939. prcREEs: s.B., 1939; s.ar., 1940.

MARRIED: Olivia Peters, 1940-44; Alice Taylor Dunn, 1945-49; Mary Baldwin
Schwab, Sept. 19, 1949. cuHILpREN: Katharine Bliss, Aug. 6, 1950; William
Henry, Aug. 23, 1951; James Lawrence Stuart, Jan. 31, 1954.

DIED: Dec. 24, 1963, Southampton, N.Y.

wipow: Mrs. Henry L. Pool, Ocean Avenue, East Hampton, Long Island, N.Y.

In November, 1963, Pool sent in the following story for our Report.
The Editors are printing it instead of a formal obituary.

“After working for some three years in the aircraft engine field for
Mr. Charles L. Lawrence, I joined the U.S. Army Air Force where I
fought the battle of Wright Field (in our days known as Mc. Cook
Field) and Gravelly Point, Washington, working on power plants,
mostly compound engines for aircraft.

“After the war I combined farming and doing research on rockets and
ramjets in the Aeronautical Department of Princeton University under
O.N.R. and O.A.R. contracts for a few years. Princeton seems to find
that this is an excuse to include me in all their fund-raising promotions,
but I am a poor bet as it is all I can do to get together the funds for
our Twenty-fifth. During this period I married Mary B. Schwab, from
Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y. We have had three children who are a
great pleasure to bring up. Possibly two of them might be suitable
for Harvard, the third being Radcliffe material.

“Since Princeton I have been doing consulting work on various projects
such as cyrogenic valves for the Atlas missile, high speed turbines,
control devices, etc.

“We live in East Hampton, Long Island, New York, which is 110 miles
from a city. It is still rather unspoiled and probably will be safe from
the threat of the coming “Megatropolis” for some time.

“During my spare time I play a lot of golf and go hunting around
East Hampton in the fall. In winter I have been doing philatelic research
in the field of cancellations on early U.S. postage stamps and stamps on
covers. Have helped edit several books on the subject. It is my hope
that the world situation will permit me to continue along these lines.”

He was survived by his wife and children,

818 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

JOHN LINDSLEY POOLE +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: % Rigley, 2701 S. Bayshore Drive, Miami, Fla.

WALTER STONE POOR, JR.

xe

    

HOME ADDRESS: Bowery Road, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Barnes Engineering Co., Stamford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936.

marniep: F. Mary Zabriskie, June 15, 1940. cuttpken: Frances M., May 2, 1944;
Ann E., June 16, 1946; Walter Stone, 4th, July 1, 1947; Roger L., Feb. 24,
1950; David B., May 24, 1951.

occuPATION: Project engineer, infra-red components development.

OFFICES HELD: Elementary meteorology instructor, Civil Air Patrol, 1950-53; mem-
ber, board of directors, Norwalk YMCA, 1953-55, Science Committee, New
Canaan Board of Education, 1957; chairman, Boy Scout Troop Committee,
Troop 70, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: American Vacuum Society; American Ordnance Association; New
Canaan Field Club; Norwalk Yacht Club; U.S. Power Squadron (Darien).

PATENTS: No, 3,087,373, Oscillatory Scanning System.

After a trip around the world as a workaway on a freighter, my work-
ing career began with Sperry Gyroscope Company and continued
through the war years, working mostly on ballistic data for gunfire con-
trol devices. A New York City apartment was not my idea of a place

weet eer AE CECE 7 7

ene en Te

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 819

to raise a family, so 1946 saw relocation to New Canaan, Connecticut,
living here ever since.

Joining Perkin-Elmer in 1948 eliminated long-distance commuting and
acquainted me with the then-new field of infra-red, working on develop-
ment and production of dectors used in infra-red instruments for both
commercial and military applications. A move to Barnes Engineering
Company in 1959 continued my association with infra-red on develop-
ment of components and equipment,

As for outside interests, aviation and boating have predominated,
having owned a four-place aircraft and flown the family around the
east coast area until the children got too heavy payload-wise — then
settling down to the water and taking up sailing in earnest.

Life over the past years has not been dull. Raising a family of five
children keeps things lively as they mature and really grow up. I like
to measure my acquaintances by the kind of people they really are —
not by whom they know or any pseudo symbols of status. I try to convey
this message to the children— be yourself and be honest about it — it

pays in the long run.

LESLIE ROSS PORTER, JR.

    

  

: \ , = .
3 x
Re! Z ‘SES

HOME appRESS: Colby Road, Ipswich, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Leslie R. Porter Co., Inc., 126 Park St., Beverly, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Andover Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Jeanne Elizabeth Mackenzie, May 30, 1940. cuiLprEN: Leslie Ross, 3d,
July 1, 1942 (m. Christy] Schrieber, Nov. 15, 1963); David Eliott, March 29,
1944; Douglas Mackenzie, March 12, 1949.

OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, Leslie R. Porter Company, Inc. (construc-
tion) and R. P. Systems, Inc. (engineering).

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Salem Country Club, Peabody, Mass., 1961-63;
trustee, North Shore Babies Hospital, 1964-67.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Salem Country Club; Madison Square

Garden Club of Boston; John T. Heard Lodge, A.F. & A.M., Ipswich; Ipswich
Royal Arch Chapter, A.F. & A.M.

PUBLICATIONS: Patent: In the field of pre-cast concrete.

Upon graduation I entered into my father’s construction business.
During the war years our work at various defense sites and Army bases
(from Massachusetts to Wisconsin) resulted in my occupational defer-

820 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ment from government service. Subsequent to V-J Day I have labored to
procure sustenance via industrial construction in direct competition with
the invincible economic trend wherein the “big get bigger and the
small get smaller.” My drudgery from this exploit has been broken on
occasion by sojourns in Acapulco. In addition thereto, I am presently
concerned with the culmination of a project having to do with basic
engineering sciences which was launched some fifteen years ago under
the encouragement of the late Professor Haertlein.

My family consists of my wife, Jeanne, and three sons and one daugh-
ter-in-law. I love them dearly; however, I suppose we are a family,
average with respect to the times (one boy in the University of New
Hampshire — none in Harvard).

Our home is in Ipswich, Massachusetts, on the water’s edge where we
enjoy excellent hunting, fishing, water skiing, and you name it.

JOHN ALEXANDER PORTNER +

 
  

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 2917 Glover Driveway, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20016.

SEWALL BENNETT POTTER

 

HOME appress: 20 Wildwood St., Dorchester 24, Mass,
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 821

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; a.M. (Boston Univ.), 1951;
PH.D. (ibid.), 1954,

MARRIED: Ethel Scholnick, Feb. 6, 1949. cuitpREN: Peter Geoffrey, Dec. 20, 1952;
Pamela Maxine, March 24, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Teacher, Boston Public Schools.

PUBLICATIONS: “Fundamentals of Music,” 1961.

ROSS CARLTON POWELL, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Hickory Drive, South Glastonbury, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, 400 Main St., East Hartford, Conn.
PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREEs: s.B., 1939; s.m. (Univ. of Connecticut),
1942

MARRIED: Elizabeth Noyes, Oct. 18, 1941. cHt~preN: Sarah Whitney, July 14, 1943;
Deborah Neale, Oct. 30, 1944; Ross Carlton, 3d, Feb. 2, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Metallurgist; assistant chief, materials engineering, Pratt & Whitney
Aircraft.

OFFICES HELD: President, South Glastonbury Library Association, 1955-56; mem-
ber, Town Government Study Committee, 1953-54, Sewer Commission, 1956—
62, Glastonbury, Conn.; member, executive committee, Hartford Chapter,
American Society for Metals, 1957-60.

MEMBER OF: American Society for Metals; Orchard Hill Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Technical papers on the metallurgy of rocket case materials.

After graduation, wied farming for a while, then attended the Uni-
versity of Connecticut, receiving an S.M. degree in 1942. Went to work
for Pratt & Whitney Aircraft in 1942, first as a chemist and then as a
metallurgist, responsible for administration of materials laboratories in
large manufacturer of aerospace power plants. Still at Pratt & Whitney
after twenty-one years, now trying to find the answers to some of the
difficult materials problems of the space age. Never thought in 1939
that our generation would be concerned with how to get a man to the
moon and back again.

Married Elizabeth Noyes, Radcliffe ’37, while still a graduate assistant
at the University of Connecticut. Family growing up at a frightening
rate: elder daughter, Sarah Whitney, born in 1943, is now a junior at
Rhode Island School of Design. Younger daughter, Deborah, born in
1944, is a sophomore at Syracuse University. Son Ross Carlton, 3d, is in
sophomore class at Glastonbury High School. Have been moderately
active in community affairs: Town Government Study Committee,
recommending council-manager form of government which Glastonbury

829 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

now has; Sewer Commission for six years (a thankless job! ); scourmaster
and still active in scouting. Went, with our troop, this year, for a hike
through the White Mountains, including twenty miles in one day
across the top of the Presidential Range. Indoor sports are reading
(everything ) and listening to good music on the record player. Out-
door sports include fishing, camping, hiking, tennis and canoeing,

EDWARD THOMAS POWERS

RE BER eT or aa agement
:
f

al

pe

   

tant tt,
i
t
fig salie on Riche lee Rae hk oleae

  

tm, oF

4g

HoMeE appress: 56 Binney Lane, Old Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE AppRESS: Chemstrand Co., 350 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Olive. T. Gatch, Dec. 17, 1945. cHitpren: Nelson G., June 6, 1948;
Mary J., Jan. 2, 1951; Edward Thomas, Jr., Dec. 26, 1953.

occupation: Director of market planning, Chemstrand Company, Division of Mon-
santo Chemical Company, manufacturers of chemical fibers.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of trustees, Hartley House, New York City.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Rocky Point Club, Old Greenwich,
Conn.; American Chemical Society; American Institute of Chemical Engi-
neers; New England Society of New York; Textile Analysts.

 

I started out in life, after Harvard graduation, with a technical degree
and the first fifteen years of my business life were generally directed
toward technical problems in the chemical engineering areas. These
were satisfying and I believe productive years.

During the last ten years I gravitated into the marketing area, both
national and international. My efforts have been mainly concentrated
in the field of synthetic fibers. I must confess that in spite of my techni-
cal education I find the problems in the marketing area more interesting
and challenging than those purely of a technical nature. However, my
most recent work has been a sustained effort to apply mathematical and

scientific principles to the marketing area. While we can not yet claim
that marketing has achieved the mathematical approach of either
engineering or basic science, still much progress has been made. The
intellectual challenge of trying to match up production capabilities of
chemical fiber plants with estimated demands for products made from
these fibers continues to be a fascinating one and keeps me extremely

busy. This is especially true in the under-developed countries where
the need is great but the purchasing power low.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Aside from business I have been busy raising children, two boy:
a girl. They are all still below college age and the big problem 1
seems to be to try to condition their study habits to a suitable
of seriousness and academic ability so that they can qualify for
colleges.

On the lighter side, I guess my major hobby is fishing. This s
to provide an excellent means of relaxation. In addition I spend tir
travel, bridge, sailing and just plain good conversation with frien
try to keep up with modern literature but this is rather difficult bec
of the demands of business reading. The New York theatre and ;
movies are extremely attractive and stimulating but again it seems
cult to find enough time to take advantage of them sufficiently.

Politically, 1 generally favor the Republican Party and take a
dim view of the tendency to overcentralize political and econe
power in Washington. My travels have taken me over a good pot
of the world and in spite of the obvious and very serious prob

facing us, I remain optimistic about man’s ability to solve them
create a better world for our children.

JOHN AUGUSTINE POWERS t

824 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 2666 First Ave., San Diego 3, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Marshfield High School, Marshfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEcREES: a.B., 1939; p.m.p., 1943.

marRIED: Doris Jeanette Booze, Nov. 21, 1943 (divorced 1962). cHi~pREN: Ann
staples, Sept. 20, 1946; Bruce Robert, March 23, 1951; Scott Kenneth, March
9, 1959.

occuPaTion: Dentistry,

OFFICES HELD: Dental officer, U.S, Navy, active duty, 1942-46; member, board of
directors, San Diego Junior Chamber of Commerce, 1948-54; director, Ace
Finance Company, San Diego, 1957-63; director and various chairmanships
and officerships, San Diego County Dental Society, 1948-63; president-elect,
1963-64, president, 1964-65, San Diego County Dental Society; secretary-
treasurer, San Diego County Dental Seminar, 1963-64.

MEMBER OF: American Dental Association; Southern California Dental Association;
San Diego County Association; Kiwanis Club; Civitan Club; Kona Kai Club;
Republican Associates; Point Loma Community Church; American Academy

of Oral Biology; San Diego Speed Boat Club; AOPA.

When I received the request for an autobiographical sketch last Sep-
tember, I thought it would be easy to dash off a few thoughts, send
them in to the Class Report Office #uy pronto and be one of the early
birds. But it didn’t turn out quite that way — each sketch that I wrote
seemed so full of the fun I’ve had and was so entirely lacking in philos-
ophy, depth and important accomplishments that I tore them up and
here 1 am one of the very late reporters. Congratulations to our ef-
ficient Class Report Committee for its many proddings,

After four really pleasant years at Harvard Dental School suddenly
I was an officer in the Navy Dental Corps at Newport, Rhode Island.
While here on duty Dody and I were married and honeymooned for a
year in the gardener’s cottage at Castle Hill before I shipped out on a
submarine tender to Midway Island. Those years in the Navy were a
wonderful internship, rounding off the rough edges and giving me that
concentrated dose of experience that has been of fundamental value

ever since. I believe it made it easier to pass the notorious California

State Boards for my license to practise here in my adopted state.

Finally I started in private practice in San Diego, California, in No-
vember of 1946 and have been busy here ever since with all the events,
joys and struggles that make up life on this planet. It has been a full
life. I would love to sit down with you, my old friends, and philosophize
about the wonders of this life, though I find it difficult to write about.

San Diego was booming when I started in practice here, so I had no
trouble making a good living right away. Dody and the children and I
went on many wonderful flying trips all over the country in a small
plane that we owned with two other families. We drank in this vast
and exciting west from the air weekend after weekend, We love it.
California is really a land of contrasts that you must experience to be-

lieve. Our airplane travels took us back to my home in Marshfield,

Massachusetts, several times plus other trips to many states, Puerto Rico,

Alaska and Mexico.

During these years the sports car craze hit California and I’m happy
that J acted like a kid and had the indescribable thrill of racing these
little gems over a two-year period. But my wife, Dody, finally persuaded
me to quit— something about it making her nervous!

Have dabbled in real estate and the stock market a little — helped

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 825

out on a few political campaigns and civic projects here and there: all
the time staying quite active in my county dental society affairs. So now
I find myself about to be president of the society for 1964-65. It will be
a pleasant duty.

Harvard was good to me; dentistry has been good to me; San Diego
and the West are great; life is an endless exciting series of surprises, hard
work, depths of discouragement and beautiful heights of ecstasy. | really
feel that these past twenty-five years, as wonderful as they have been
(in retrospect), were just the introduction to a next twenty-five-year
period of less turmoil and youthful excitement but more peace of mind
and serenity of spirit.

 

HOME ADpREssS: 803 State St., Madison, Wis.; Presson’s Point, Gloucester, Mass.
(summer).

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bascom Hall, University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis.

PREPARED AT: Gloucester High School, Gloucester, Mass.; Beacon School, Welles-
ley Hills, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.M., 1941;
PH.D., 1947.

UNMARRIED.

occupaTIoNn: Professor of English.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; Renaissance Society of America;
Historical Society of Gloucester.

PUBLICATIONS: Shakespeare’s Troilus and Cressida and the Legends of Troy; arti-
cles on John Marston, Shakespeare, Boethius, and recently completed a mono-
graph on Shakespeare and the Categories of Dreams.

After graduation I spent a number of years in the Medical Corps of
the Army. Made quite lengthy stays in a circuit of the Pacific at New
Guinea, Cebu and Japan.

After the war I got my doctorate at Harvard and went directly to
the University of Wisconsin. I have been teaching there ever since, and
in the last five years graduate and undergraduate courses in Chaucer
and Shakespeare. During those years I published a monograph and
articles, and more are in the process of composition. .

Summers are spent on the three-hundred-year-old family property in
Gloucester, Massachusetts. There my principal hobby 1s not sailing
although some of my acres are on a tidewater, but landscaping. Es-

826 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

pecially interested in experimenting with rhododendron species, English
hollies and Chinese magnolias,

* MORGAN O'BRIEN PRESTON

  
 

BORN: May 7, 1918, New York, N.Y. parents: Stuart Duncan Preston, 06, Made-
leine O’Brien.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREES: a.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.p., (Yale Univ.).
1942.

prep: Killed in action, June 2, 1944, in Italy.

Morgan O’Brien Preston enlisted in the Army in 1942, attended
Officers Candidate School and received his commission in 1943. He
volunteered for overseas duty with the Infantry and went into action in
Italy, receiving a citation’ and the Purple Heart. Upon discharge from
the hospital he rejoined his regiment in the fighting north of Rome. He
was killed in action while leading his battle patrol] north of Valmontone,
Italy. He was survived by his parents.

SYLVESTER GARDINER PRIME t+

LAST MAILING Abpkess: Gardiner Farm, Shelter Island, Long Island, N.Y,

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 827

WILLIAM HARRISON PROSSER

 

HOME ApDpREsS: 119 E. Tenth St., New York, N.Y. 10003.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Franklin Spier, Inc., 232 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y. 10016.
PREPARED AT: New Albany High School, New Albany, Ind.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.
MARRIED: Esther Winslow Schell, 1940; Gerta Franchot Kennedy, 1962. CHILDREN:

Evan Harrison, Aug. 26, 1942 (m. April Cass, 1963) ; Gwen Thomas, Dec. 22,
1945,

HARVARD SON: Evan Harrison Prosser, ’64.

OCCUPATION: Advertising agency, account executive.

PUBLICATIONS: Nine to Five, 1953, Enemies and Friends, 1958, Little, Brown &
Company.

Since 1939 I have been an advertising copywriter, media director of an
advertising agency, advertising manager for an investment company,
expediter in a shipyard building minesweepers for our Navy and for
NATO nations, country newspaper editor, radio news editor, ‘free-lance
public relations man, novelist and would-be playwright.

In World War Il, I served as gunnery officer on a destrover escort in
the Atlantic and the Mediterranean and as commanding officer of an
LST in the Pacific.

From 1951 to 1961 I conducted a ten-year experiment in country living
in Nobleboro, Maine, where [ combined writing with several of the
occupations noted above. This period accounts for two published
novels, a number of articles and short stories, and three plavs. One of
the latter was produced by the Poets’ Theater in Cambridge.

Now that I have moved to New York where I work as an advertising
account executive for a number of publishing firms, I continue to alter-
nate between attempting to get one of the aforementioned plays produced
and completing another novel,

If I were to choose a particularly significant experience, it would be
my association with the Maine workman-fisherman: an extreme indi-
vidualist with unusual intelligence, ingenuity and character who is fight-
ing a losing battle with the mid-twentieth century.

828 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

DONALD BROWN PROUTY

    

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Foster St., Littleton, Mass.

orice appress: 84 State St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; LL.B., 1942 (46).

marrizD: Carey E. Tatro, July 8, 1939. cumpren: Pamela, Sept. 13, 1942; Melissa,
Oct. 25, 1944,

occuPATION: Lawyer; general practice.

OFFICES HELD: U.S. Navy, July, 1941, through October, 1945: commanding officer,
USS PC 625; officer detail officer, USN TC, Miami, Florida; navigator,
USS Fall River, CA131; separated rank, commander; moderator and town
counsel, Town of Littleton, since 1948; trustee, Community Memorial Hos-
pital, since 1949; incorporator, Middlesex Institution for Savings, since
1959; member, Advisory Board, Harvard Trust Company, since 1959;
treasurer, First Church Unitarian, Littleton, since 1949.

MEMBER OF: Middlesex County Bar Association; Concord Choral Society; Concord
Country Club; Stage Harbor Yacht Club, Chatham; Harvard Club of Concord.

Dear 1939 Class Report Office:

lam sure you no longer expect to receive any “sketch” from me, but
if I keep most of my secrets and finish this account quickly, tomorrow
morning | can forego my usual comfortable ride to Boston with the
B&M, drive to Cambridge, wend my weary way through the beards and
sandals in Harvard Square to 8 Everett Street, and deliver in hand, on
the deadline.

Lest you think that this sacrifice is not a very significant recognition
of your many postcards, not to mention two telephone calls, I hasten
to remind you that, not only has Route 2, from Littleton to Cambridge,
long since ceased to be my private “expressway,” but also, I have an
important tradition to uphold with the BkM. The daily commuting to
Boston from Littleton, which my great-grandfather started and his son
and grandson continued, in a short time I can extend to an even one
hundred years, that is, if the railroad and I can keep going another
year or so, which is twice doubtful.

I, of course, use an automobile occasionally, but I much prefer to
leave the task to Mrs, Prouty. As you may remember, she very kindly
took over getting my automobile to the right place at the right time
late in the freshman year, after Dolph announced to the baseball team
that, while he did not care how, or even if, we returned from away
games, we would at least go, by bus, together.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 829

Carey has carried on nobly, first for me and then for two daughters,
ever since. In fact, according to the counter on the old hand crank gas
pump in the garage, as of today, we have consumed 93,772 gallons. We
now think her “ferrying” days are about over, which is lucky because,
while she is lovelier than ever, the old gas pump is about done. Pam, as a
senior at Smith and Melissa, as a sophomore at Stanford, can now both
have their own cars. However, as both are not only much smarter, but
also far more appealing than I was at that age, neither seems to have any
trouble having other parents supply not only the car, but the driver and
the gas as well.

This is fortunate for me too. It takes “inflow” to buy cars. When I]
became self-employed many years ago my thought was, “Unemployed,
but with dignity.” I promised Carey that, even at best (or worst? ), it
would mean a more leisurely life, more time at home and frequent, even
if involuntary, vacations. Well, the inflow hasn’t and doesn’t trouble me,
nor my conscience, but I am beginning to dislike its unfortunate and
close correlation with “output.” I may not yet be seeking the unemploy-
ment, even if more dignified, though some loyal and long-waiting clients
may finally break down and give it to me. However, I am thinking more
and more about that promise. Increasing old age may improve the advice
one gives, professional or otherwise, it may gradually diminish the
quantity to that amount which is solicited; but it does not necessarily
improve the tone in which it is delivered.

Maybe I can improve the tone in which this is received if I hastily add
that the persistence with which you went after the inconsequential “hot
air’ made me apprehensive about the methods the Class Fund office
might eventually use to secure the “cold cash.” Thinking physical
violence not impossible, and being now aged and infirm, I did send that
more worthwhile “reply” in promptly. However, I suppose I sull do
owe you an apology. If the Fund office does not get at least one apology
it can spare, I’ll send one in, but the past record makes me think, and not
happily, that that office may get more of those than it can use.

ALLEN EMERSON PUCKETT

    

HOME appress: 3572 Terrave View Drive, Encino, Calif.
OFFICE ADpRESS: Hughes Aircraft Co., Culver City, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Bloom High School, Chicago Heights, IL.

830 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: 5.B., summa cum laude, 1939; s.m., 1941.

MARRIED: Betty Jane Howlett, Sept. 7, 1940 (diverced 1962) ; Marilyn McFarland,
May 17, 1963. cHiLpren: Allen Weare, March 17, 1942; Nancy Lee, Nov. 21,
1943; Susan Elizabeth, May 25, 1945.

HARVARD SON: Allen Weare Puckett, Harvard Law School, first year.

occuPATION: Vice-president and group executive, Hughes Aircraft Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, since January, 1962, vice-chairman,
since July, 1962, Defense Science Board; consultant, Operations Evaluation
Group, Chief of Naval Operations, since 1960, President’s Science Advisory
Committee, since 1960; chairman, NASA Research Advisory Committee on
Control, Guidance & Navigation, since 1959; member, Scientific Advisory
Committee, Ballistic Research Laboratories, U.S. Army Ordnance, Aberdeen
Proving Ground, Md., since 1958; vice-president and group executive, Aero-
space Group, Hughes Aircraft Company, since 1961; vice-president and di-
rector Aerospace Engineering Division, 1959-61; associate director, Systems
Development Laboratories, 1957-59; director of operations, Weapon Systems
Development Laboratories, 1955-57; director of Advanced Planning, Research
and Development Laboratories, 1954-55; head, Aerodynamics Department,
Guided Missile Laboratory, 1949-54; research consultant in aerodynamics,
1941-45, lecturer in aeronautics and chief, Wind Tunnel Sectien, Jet Pro-
pulsion Laboratory, 1945-49, California Institute of Technology; technical
consultant to U.S. Army Ordnance, Aberdeen Proving Ground, Md., since
1945, Wind Tunnel Design, Pittsburgh Des Moines Steel Company, 1943-45 ;
chairman, Steering Group, Mutual Weapons Development Program, 1956-61,
Steering Group, Advisory Panel on Aeronautics, 1956-61, Office of the Director
of Defense Research and Engineering; member, Subcommittee on Automatic
Stabilization and Control, NASA, 1956-59, Committee on Aerodynamics,
NACA, 1953-55, Guided Missile Committee, Research and Development Board,
1952-54, U.S. Military Intelligence Mission, September-October, 1947, U.S.
Military Technical Mission, June-July, 1945; past chairman, NACA Sub-
committee on High Speed Aero Dynamics.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi; ATAA; American Rocket Society; Insti-
tute of Aeronautical Sciences (fellow, 1957); recipient of Institute of Aero-
nautical Sciences Lawrence Sperry Award, 1949.

PUBLICATIONS: Author of seven technical papers on high speed aerodynamics; co-
author, Introduction to Aerodynamics of a Compressible Fluid and Guided
Missile Engineering.

After leaving Harvard in 1941, I headed for the California Institute
of Technology, with the intention of completing my graduate work in
aeronautical engineering under Professor Theodore von Karman. With
the advent of the war, I found myself deep in research programs in
supersonic aerodynamics which suddenly appeared to be of great interest
to both the Army and the Air Corps. Most of my war years were
spent at the Army’s Ballistic Research Laboratories or at Cal Tech
assisting in the development of supersonic wind tunnels, or testing
various devices in them.

Following the war I continued at Cal Tech, belatedly completing my
Ph.D., and participating in some of the early guided missile develop-
ments at the Jet Propulsion Laboratory. These were exciting years
in which the world of supersonic flight and guided missiles was still
new and mysterious.

In 1949 I took the plunge into industry, joining the Hughes Aircraft
Company as head of the Aerodynamics Section. The pace and excite-
ment of research and development in industry proved to be little different
from that of the academic world, at least in this particular field. Through
a series of accidents and misadventures I found my interests broadening,
my responsibilities widening and my opportunities to participate per-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 831

sonally in the solution of engineering problems decreasing, to the point
where somewhat to my surprise I am managing the Aerospace Group
of our company, with about 20,000 people and $3 million in sales to
worry about.

Many interesting things that have occurred in the last ten years
include my growing interest in sailing and yacht racing. Over the last
last eight years I have taken part in four races to Honolulu, one to
Acapulco, one to Mazatlan and innumerable shorter races. My own
small ocean racing sloop proves to be a wonderful way to escape the
telephones and pressures of business over a weekend and still to enjoy
the company of family or friends. Whether under the pressure and
tension of a close race or completely relaxed in a cove at Catalina, this
is a great avocation.

The new challenge of the space age has made a dramatic change in
our business in that many of the highly complex technologies developed
for military applications now find use for peaceful purposes in space.
One of our more interesting undertakings at Hughes has been the
development of our Syncom Communication Satellite which moves in
an orbit 22,000 miles above the earth, and having the same rotational
period as the earth appears to stand still in the sky. We hope our first
experiments in this field may pave the way for a truly practical global
satellite communication system with real value and benefit to all the
peoples of the world.

And last, to remind me that I am not getting any younger, is the
remarkable phenomenon of seeing number one son installed in his first
year in Harvard Law School and living only a few hundred yards
from my ancient haunts in Pierce Hall. If the University is half as
good to him as it was to me, and if he carries away a fourth as much,
he will indeed have much to be thankful for, as do I.

CHARLES | PHILLIPS PURDY, JR.

    

\ am
Ae
pw

aa
=

 

. ,

my

HOME ADpRESS; 410 8, Vine St, Denver 9. Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Metal Climax, Inc. 1845 Sherman St. Denver 9, Cole
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, prenee: sia, 1059,

MARRIED: Carolee Seagran, May 8, 1945,

occupaTION: Mining; exploration geologist.

832 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

MEMBER OF: Geological Society of America; Society of Economic Geologists.

PUBLICATIONS: “Antimony occurrences of Washington,” Bull. 39, 1951; “Molyb-
denum occurences of Washington,” Report of Investigations, No. 18, 1954,
Washington State Dept. Conservation, Division of Mines and Geology.

Have been active in field geology as applied to metal mining since
leaving college to the regrettable exclusion of all else, family life, recrea-
tion, etc. I feel this sentence covers the situation, and there is little to
be gained by elaboration.

I] am truly looking forward to reading about the more varied activities
and fuller lives of my classmates.

JOHN VINCENT QUINLAN, JR.

    

HOME appreEss: 108 Lincoln St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 368 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; M.B.A., 1941.

MARRIED: Minerva Krampitz, 1943. cHiLpREN: Michael, August, 1948; Linda, May,
1950; Maureen, July, 1953; John Vincent, 3d, December, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Electrical contractor.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Union Savings Bank.

MEMBER OF: Scituate Harbor Yacht Club.

My twenty-five years seem rather uneventful at the moment. They
have been interesting and rewarding with the usual successes and dis-
appointments, Five years in the Navy provided me with an unexpected
education as to life at sea. This was partly appreciated since I took
oceanography at college with no idea 1 would have such a close asso-
ciation with it.

I have been a part of a family business since World War I]. My
father and his partner are still active in the business. They are both
members of Class of 1907. 1 still do not know the answer as perhaps
others in a similar category as to whether a business career in an im-
personal company would have been preferable, It is a tantalizing decision
approaching as to whether to advise my son to join me in business.

In recent years we have acquired a second home in Cape Cod. This
has given my family a completely new satisfying experience. The
scenery of the Cape seems to continually captivate our beings. The
feeling of escape from the city and suburbs further creates more of a

cee mare saucanuedpaatuasautee se. stpsdtapes:: Guptteeacc 4 Tas

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 833

love for Cape Cod. I guess these are the symptoms of “the beginnings
of the second half” that seem to coincide with the Twenty-fifth.

RICHARD FOLK RABENOLD

 

HOME ApprEss: Folkstone, R.D. 1, Breinigsville, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 242 Plum St., Allentown, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Riverdale School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., 1939.
MARRIED: Jean Marion Winslow, 1944 (died 1948).
OccUPATION: Accountant.

MEMBER OF: D.U. Fraternity; American Legion.

Since graduation, most of my activities have been connected with
the military service, both U.S. Navy and U.S. Air Force.

Except for a short marriage, 1 have no family nor children. My
only hobby continues to be the piano, and extensive reading is my only
other pastime.

My former strong convictions have mellowed with time, owing in
part to repeated hospitalization through the years. I sull embrace, how-
ever, the Lutheran faith, The social, moral and political practices in
this country have deteriorated to the point of serious alarm.

I wish all my classmates the best of success and happiness.

ARTHUR LOUIS RACINE

 

 

OSes me nema

834 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HOME appreEss: 153 Elm St., Somerville, Mass. 02144.
PREPARED aT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1940. pecREE: A.B., 1939(40).

marriep: Paula Morin, August, 1949. cntto: Martha Ann, July 20, 1950.
OCCUPATION: Free-lancer.

MEMBER OF: Veterans of Foreign Wars; Center Club (mental health field).

Not prepared for professional work. Would be interested in an
academic WPA (such as specialized encyclopedic projects). Was very
sorry to see President Kennedy’s bill for community mental health
clinics or centers defeated by Congress. Where can people go who
suffer from chronic illness, chronic unemployability and its evil corollary
of insecurity or chronic loneliness? I don’t believe that State Hospitals
is the answer.

I was very lucky to have had a fine job in the Army during World
War Il. A specialty which perhaps evaporated with progress —I don’t
know. The air raids over Bizerte were rather nerve-sledging, but the
trips to Tunis were interesting. I don’t know if I met the Lady from
Madagascar or the Lady from Mattapan there.

* ROBERT PATTESON RANDALL

 

BoRN: Aug. 7, 1917, Irvington, N.Y. parents: Paul King Randall, ’14, Katherine
Patteson.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1936, 1937-1938.

DIED: Killed in action, November, 1941, en route to Lisbon, Portugal. «

Robert Patteson Randall left Harvard in his sophomore year to join
an Antarctic whaling expedition, On returning he entered the U.S.
Merchant Marine to prepare for a Position in the marine department of
a large oil company. He was aboard the Socony Vacuum Oil tanker
Astral bound for Lisbon which was never heard from since leaving
Aruba in November, 1941. The Navy Department presumes the Astral
to have been sunk with her entire crew. In August, 1945, Randall was

posthumously awarded the Mariners Medal. He was survived by his
parents.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 835

ROBERT MAURICE RAVVEN t

 

HOME aporess: 18 Hillview Rd., Gorham, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 477 Congress St., Portland, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Gloucester High School, Gloucester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pECREES: a.B., 1939; a.m.t., 1944.

MARRIED: Doris Backman, Jan. 23, 1942. cHttpkEN: Marcella Ann, Oct. 10, IMS;
Jonathan Matthew, Aug. 15, 1948,

OCCUPATION: Manager, Life, Accident & Health Agency Department, Travelers
Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, State of Maine Chapter. American Society of Chartered
Life Underwriters, 1956, General Agents and Managers Association of Maine,
1957; Master, Harmony Lodge No. 38, A.F. & A.M. 1902; Grand Repre.
sentative, Grand Lodge of Finland to the Grand Lodge of Maine, 1963;
assistant scoutmaster, Troop 73, Gorham, Maine, 1963; first vice-president,
Lions Cluh, Gorham, Maine, 1963; president, Gorham High School Band
Boosters Club, 1963,

MEMBER OF: State of Maine Chapter, American Society of Chartered Life Under-
writers; General Agents and Managers Association of Maine: Southern
Maine Aasociation of Life Underwriters; State of Maine Life Underwriters
Association; 32d Degree Scettish Rite; Lions Club; Boy Scout Troop Com-
mittee; Harmony Lodge No, 38, ALF. & AM.

There is little question that the course of my life, as that of so many

8 36 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

others in the Class of 1939, was tremendously altered by the advent of
World War IL. It interrupted a brief career of teaching history, English
and Latin at Lake Forest Day School, Lake Forest, Illinois, in early
1942. It advanced by a few months my marriage plans. Next, it precipi-
tated me into another teaching career, this time as an enlisted man in
the Army Air Corps radar school at Boca Raton, Florida. There I was
fortunate enough to have my bride join me and, with the arrival of
our daughter Marcella, in 1945, to begin our life as a family. Many are
the fond memories of those war years in spite of their restrictions and
deprivations, Some of our greatest joys have come through renewal and
continuance of friendships formed at that time. In 1957 an “educational
investment” in the form of an 11,500-mile tour of the United States for
the entire family permitted us the pleasure of picking up where we
had left off with friends we hadn't seen for more than a decade.

After my discharge as a staff sergeant, we moved to Connecticut where
I served for little more than a year as head of the English Department
at Stafford Springs High School. Though I found teaching a challenge,
the difficulty of raising and educating a family on a teacher’s salary
prompted a change in occupation.

Thus it was that in 1947 I joined the Travelers Insurance Company
in Hartford, Connecticut, as a field supervisor in the Life, Accident and
Group Department. While still located in the Hartford Branch Office,
I was promoted to assistant manager in 1948, the same year our son,
Jonathan, was born. In 1951 I was pleased to receive the Chartered Life
Underwriters designation from the American College of Life Under-
writers.

The next major event in our lives occurred with my. promotion, in
1952, to manager of the Life, Accident and Health Department in Port-
land, Maine. This meant pulling up our deep-set roots in South Willing-
ton, Connecticut, and moving to Gorham, Maine. “Vacationland” has
been good to us and though we'll never live long enough to be
accepted as “Maine-iacs” we are delighted to have the opportunity to
raise our two children in its atmosphere and ourselves to become 1nte-
gral parts of a small New England town.

Professionally, I have been active in the life underwriter associations,
acquiring my C.L.U. designation, L.U.T.C. Award and diploma in
Agency Management, In addition to serving as president of two life
underwriter organizations, I have directed a course in the L.U.T.C.
program as well as a course in agency management.

In the community, I have found that one is rewarded in direct propor-
tion to his contributions. Conditioned by my own experience in the
Harvard Band, over the past ten years | have been instrumental in
organizing a high schoo] band under sponsorship of the local Lions Club.
At long, long last the band of twenty-nine pieces is integrated into the
school system, has a full-time director, is uniformed, and is supported
by an active Band Booster Club.

As a family, we have been active in the Cub Scout, Boy Scout and
Campfire Girls programs. In the Masonic order, I am past master of my
Blue Lodge, a 32d Degree Scottish Rite Mason and this year have been
honored with a lifetime commission as grand representative of the
Grand Lodge of Finland to the Grand Lodge of Maine.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 837

Town affairs have become more meaningful through serving as a
member of a school building committee and of a committee to formulate
a charter for Council-Manager form government for adoption by the
town. Of particular pleasure has been active participation in two tax-
payers’ associations which were both successful in promoting new
school buildings over the opposition of the entrenched old guard.

For the past twenty-one years I have been happily married to the
former Doris Backman, who has adjusted well to the problem of keeping
father happy while taking seriously her responsibilities in raising our
children. Marcella (Sally), who won many honors in high school, is
now in her freshman year at Colby College, and Jonathan (Jon) is a
sophomore in Gorham High School.

Life has treated us well. We have a lovely family; we’ve been blessed
with good health; we have acquired many friends and our income is
almost adequate for our needs, What problems we may face in the
future is for the future alone to reveal. We shall live today the best
we know how. We'll live tomorrow tomorrow.

LORING HAY RAYMOND, JR.

oud.

    

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Marshall Terr., Wayland, Mass.

OFFICE appRESs: NRC Equipment Corp., Division of Norton Co., 160 Charlemont
St., Newton 61, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: S.B., 1939; M.B.A., 194],

MARRIED: Edythe McCracken, Feb. 7, 1942. CHILDREN: Mark Maleolm, Jan. 26,
1955; Laurie Allen, Sept. 25, 1956.

occuPATION: Purchasing agent, NRC Equipment Corporation; responsible for
purchasing, transportation and security.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Electronic Industries Procurement Group, vice-chair:

man, College and Universities Division, New England Association of Purchas-
ing Agents.

MEMBER OF: Directors Club of New England Home for Little Wanderers; Trinitar-

ian Congregational Church of Wayland; Harvard Business School Association ;
Masonie Lodge; Wayland Republican Town Committee.

If I had tried to forecast in June, 1939, what life had in store TP would
not have even been close. How quickly these twenty-five years have
passed. In retrospect, there was continuous adjustment in epuions and
objectives. Perhaps this post graduation period can be divided into two

838 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

parts. The first one of constant change through the Korean War and
the second bringing us up to date,

First, on graduation from Harvard was two years at Harvard Business
School and an M.B.A. degree in industrial management. Then the first
full-time job in the purchasing organization at Westinghouse in Pitts-
burgh. During the war, job and job locations changed rapidly. First
in Maryland, then again in Pennsylvania and lastly in Ohio. Trips to
Washington to the Controlled Materials Sections of War Production
Board became a commuting exercise. The most important event in
this time was my marriage to “Edie” McCracken (Wellesley ’41) in
February, 1942. In this ume it was mostly two by four apartments,
living out of suitcases and traveling on the platforms of overcrowded
trains.

With the end of the Korean conflict it seemed time to establish some
roots. With our son, Mark, we pulled up stakes in the Midwest and
headed back to Massachusetts —a new job at National Research (com-
pany manufactures ultra high vacuum test facilities and controls; range
from room size space simulation chambers to solid state miniaturized
controls) —our daughter Laurie, born in 1956, and all the joys of
exurbia in Wayland. Now it is P.T.A., Cub Scouts, church, etc., etc., etc.

It has been good — good enough to try all over again — but the next
ume every day should be twice as long... .

ROBERT BERNARD READE

SRE Ore: Seren

 

wo he

a a

: : | 4

‘ Pa i

~— j
~~

 

HOME abpress: Laguna Loma Ranch, Monterey-Salinas Hwy., Monterey, Calif.

OFFICE appress: Brad Whitney Sportswear Manufacturing Co., 1 Garden Rd.,
Del Monte Industrial Park, Monterey, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGHEE: a... magna cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Georgiana [lefeldt, 1942 (divorced 1958); Phyllis Diekman, 1958.
CHILDREN: Elizabeth Lindsey, Oct. 3, 1945; Christopher Bradley, March 19,
1949; Dana Whitney, Feb. 19, 1952; Robert B., June 28, 1959; Shellie Lowell,
June 3, 1945 (stepdaughter).

OCCUPATION: President, Brad Whitney Sportswear Manufacturing Company, manu-
facturers of men’s sportswear.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant io president, Macy's California, 1945-46; vice-president,
Day’s Clothing, 1949-56; vice-president and general sales manager, White
Stag Manufacturing Company, 1997-98; president, Brad Whitney Sportawear
Manufacturing Comany, since 1958.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 839

Just how does one evaluate the middle twenty-five years— the time
of creativity — condense them, assess meaningful definitions to what has
been accomplished? An “image” develops but as it is defined | wonder
if ic has any importance, significant or casual.

I can point to substantial professional accomplishment to the perhaps
ultimate objective of having founded and presided over the fortunes of
a top-rated corporation in the dynamic field of men’s sportswear fashions.
Rather idyllically-——and by deliberate design—I have been able to
adapt the demands and necessities of business life to surroundings of
extraordinary pastoral charm on this incredibly wonderful Monterey
Peninsula. We have the rare combination of a growth business in a
setting of storybook delight, which for me encompasses not only the
challenges of business management, but provides the appeals of a relaxed
tempo of living.

The progression to ownership of my own company was not without
its trials. Experience, as we all discover, is an evolutionary maturing and
preparation. I developed it through a series of expanding executive re-
sponsibilities in both the retail and manufacturing fields (Macy's, White
Stag, etc.) until I arrived at the point of both hope and despair that de-
mands taking the big go-it-yourself forward step. The result is Brad
Whitney Sportswear — my personal symbol of achievement, my pride
and my passion, mistress of my time and attention!

My wife and I have lately expanded our business horizons by ventur-
ing into the rather intriguing specialty of cattle breeding! Incompauble
and incongruous a companion activity though this may seem alongside
the design and manufacture of men’s sportswear, it has provided the per-
fect change of pace go-together. We have purchased a ranch and will be
concentrating on the breeding of Hereford and Aberdeen Angus beef
cattle. Actually, this will be mainly the management responsibility of my
good wife, Phyllis, whose devotion to this new direction of living is both
startling and amazing and quite the abrupt change in character from
her Junior League “face” of some two decades ago! Life does sidetrack
into strange detours, and I am not quite sure that we are fully adjusted
as yet to the rancher’s life, but we will have an exciting go at it.

Hobbywise, I am the weekend athlete, tempting my deskbound phy-
sique with strenuous rounds of tennis, less strenuous golf, and the peace-

ful joys of amateur flying. Politically, I find myself inclined to vote the
man rather than the Party, with an edge, however, to liberal Republican-
ism. Other than the mechanical exercise of voting, polities is a spectator
activity with me with the somewhat unusual exception of working with
Senator Tom Kuchel (California) on the sponsorship of a job-creating
tax credit proposal I have authored as part of the federal income tay re-
form program, it has been backed by such diverse authorities as Henry
Ford, AFL-CIO, National Chamber of Commerce, but has run afoul of
the typical burcaucrat's indifference to reforms that stimulate incentives.

Being here in California (and for seven years in the State of Washing-
ton) is a direct outgrowth of World War TE military: service (OLS.
Marine Corps). War's end found me in San Francisco and the West
Coast claimed me permanently, without a struggle, quite a turnabour for
one New England born and raised. But Toaimuse willingly: confess chat

840 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

this turn from the roots and the traditions of the past have been fruitful,
satisfying and wholly without any regrets or backward glancings.

My twenty-five post-college years have not been especially expansive
educationally. A narrow specialization seems to demand my attention —
and interest — and such venturing beyond is done only in brief excur-
sions, primarily instituted by curiosity or relaxation. My after-college
education seems to have matured and found its future dimensions in
learning more about the fascinating world of business — problems, solu-
tions, methodology, challenge and response.

Such recognition as has come my way has been confined to the area of
business prestige. I can claim no contribution to the world of art, sci-
ence, letters, politics, medicine, law, or the like. Occasionally, I write
pungent articles for business journals that aim at provoking the imagina-
tive spirit in the design field, Doubtlessly, these are more rewarding for
me to write than they are stimulating for others to read! Beyond this
. ++. @ Conspicuous vacuum.

Familywise, I am father to five —an over-contributor to the danger-
ous population explosion. The age range brackets from six to eighteen,
including three girls (one a stepdaughter), Elizabeth, Shellie, and Dana,
and two strapping lads, Christopher, and Robert, Jr. Both boys, academic
achievement permitting, have targeted Harvard as their educational
objective. Two of the girls are attending junior colleges, perhaps more as
stop-gaps than as stepping stones. My wife, Phyllis, is a Stanford gradu-
ate, Class of 1941, and is an avid do-gooder, a too-willing participant in
church bazaars, charitable affairs, hospital auxiliary, and other similar
community activities. The placid, relaxed, easy-going life is simply not

her ball of wax. She is a stir-the-pot sort of individual, adventurous,
outgoing, do-it-today motivated.

In substance, after twenty-five years I find life pleasant, abundantly
full, diversified and challenging. At the moment, my ambitions seem to
have been realized, and I can look forward to tomorrow with a certain
equanimity and satisfaction, Is there aught?

JOHN ARNOLD REESE, JR.

 

HOME AppREss: Fort Totten, NY.

orFice appress: Armed Forces Press Service, Dept. of Defense, 250 W. 57th St.,
New York, N.Y.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937.

marriep: Ruth J. Fitzpatrick, 1940. cHmtpren: Alice Clarke, April 24,
Linda Joan, Aug. 18, 1942 (m. Donald J.

Melisi) ; Frances Ann, Dec. 1,
GRANDCHILD: Mike Melisi, 1962.
occupation: U.S. Army officer.

Daily newspapering until World War
A good, healthy life for

ticularly want, money.

Il. Then Army. Sull A
any young man who already has, or doesn’t

Hard on wives, though. Will retire in anc
year or so. Then some writing, hunting and fade away.

JOHN EDWARD REGAN +

 
   

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 28 Harrison St., Taunton, Mass.

JOHN FRANCIS REGAN

  

HOME Apress: 6001 Osceola Rd., Bethesda 16, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chesapeake & Potomac Telephone Co., 930 H St., N.W., Wash
ington 1, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Missoula County High School, Missoula, Mont.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1036-1939. DEGREES: S.B., 1939; M.B.A. (George Washington
Univ.) , 1962.

MARRIED: Martha Moore, Jan. 22, 1943. cHitpreN: Katharyn Helm, Noy. 17, 1948;
Martha Moore, Jr., Aug. 16, 1946.

842 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

occuPATION: Telephone business; staff supervisor, Washington Metropolitan Area
Traffic Department; responsibilities include budget preparation and ad.-
ministration, operations efficiency measurement, service quality control and
resulis analysis.

OFFICES HELD: Great Books Discussion Leader and Organizer, Washington, 1954—
58; treasurer, Building Fund, 1954-57, treasurer and vestryman, 1956-6], St.
Dunstan's; lecturer, Faculty of School of Government and Business, George
Washington University, Washington, D.C., 1962-63.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Quality Control; American Society for the
Advancement of Science; Telephone Pioneers of America; University Club;
Kenwood Golf and Country Club; St. Dunstan’s Men’s Club.

pusLications: “Automation and Telephone Operator Employment,” Master’s
thesis, Washington, D.C., 1962.

After considerable thought about the past twenty-five years, I find
these significant items on which to comment.

First, in order of time, was my employment by the Bell System in the
C.&P. Telephone Company at Washington, D.C. This has been my busi-
ness career, with time out for Navy service and a three-year tour with
A.T.&T. in New York. In general, it has been an interesting series of
jobs; the variety of line and staff assignments has provided opportunity
for personal growth and development and the usual frustrations and
satisfactions that accompany institutional life.

Second, I married one Martha Moore of Washington and Kentucky.
This was the smartest thing I ever did! I say “smart” advisedly — it was
not just a matter of fortuitous circumstance; it took the better part of
three years of plotting (courting, she thought it was) to carry it off. In
later years, it was the forthright acknowledgment on my part of the
essential brilliance of this original accomplishment that gave me the self-
confidence I needed to insist that she stay married to me in the face of
domestic sound and fury. In the area of wife selection, I claim ex-
cellence; it would be not inappropriate to assert that “I have earned my
‘Y’ in (marital) life” — had I but gone to Yale!

The third item I would discuss may be described as a personal intel-
lectual renaissance, beginning with an involvement with a Great Books
Discussion Group in Greenwich, Connecticut, in 1952. This developed
into a more serious commitment, in time and effort, upon returning to
Washington in 1954, Marty became the Washington Area Coordinator
for the Great Books Foundation, and together we established a number
of groups in Washington and the suburbs.

At some point, perhaps because of recognition of my own inadequacies
as a discussion leader, I decided to submit to the real thing — to return
to academic discipline as a student. The George Washington University
accepted me as a Master's candidate and conferred the degree in June last
year. Since then I have been a part-time lecturer in undergraduate

courses in business administration there and have been accepted as a
candidate for the doctorate.

This avocation will ultimately culminate in a second career for me in
teaching and writing, extending into retirement from the telephone busi-
ness. It is a difficult struggle at times, hard on lawn-mowing, bridge, and

olf, but wonderful for escaping from television! , ,

Finally, regarding the world around us, I am encouraged by the cur-

rent move toward curbing nuclear bomb testing; | feel confident that in

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 843

our relations with the Soviets the most dangerous period is behind us.
On the other hand, [ think the internal problems of Red China pose a
serious threat to future world peace. It would be helpful in my view to
recognize the perfectly obvious fact that Red China is a nation, and to
encourage mutual understanding with her people through trade and
other natural processes.

As to domestic politics, I think that Harvard fellow will probably
win again. Actually, I agree with our President’s point of view on many
matters — taxes, space program, defense posture, and the racial problems
— but it seems to me that the administration has seriously compromised
its effectiveness by its incredibly maladroit handling of influential people
on the Hill and elsewhere. “Raw” is the word most frequently heard in
Washington to describe the operations of the White House people and
certain Cabinet officers. The good ideas of the captain are being reduced
to smithereens by the tactics of his lieutenants.

ALBERT BENJAMIN REISS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Emery St., Medford 55, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ritz-Carlton Hotel, Room 303, Boston, Mass. 02117.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecreEEs: A.B., 1939; Pod.D. (First Inst. of Podiatry),
1942; Pod.D. (Long Island Univ.), 1952.

MARRIED: Dorothy A. Durkee, May 22, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Podiatrist.

OFFICES HELD: Second vice-president, 1958-59, first vice-president, 1959-60, presi-
dent-elect, 1960-61, president, 1961-62, Massachusetts Podiatry Society; secre-
tary-treasurer, Boston Division, Massachusetts Podiatry Society, 1953-61;
secretary, Massachusetts Chiropody Association, 1952, Region One (New
England), American Podiatry Association, 1952-62.

It certainly doesn’t seem like twenty-five years since I left Harvard.
The years have been busy ones — first with vears of further study for
my professional degree; then with the years of activity in behalf of my
professional societies. For relaxation Ihave in the most pare turned to
photography, which has held my interest ever since college davs. [ took
a great many of the pictures in the roth Reunion Sc rapbook, ‘and I still
remember spending long hours in my darkroom the following months in
order to help cut down on the expenses of the book by processing the
final prints myself.

nmnaemrnaninsn tn ~ naa

S44 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939
| have been happily married since 1954 to my wife, Dorothy. Her

position as administrative secretary and accountant for the Cambridge
Red Cross keeps us rather closely current with affairs in Cambridge.

HARRY FREEMAN RICE, JR.

    

HOME ADDRESS: 251A Old Billerica Rd., Bedford, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gaston, Snow, Motley & Holt, 82 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.;
Loring Wolcott Office, 35 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREES: s.B., cum laude, 1939; LuB., 1952.

marriep: Patricia Bancroft, May 31, 1952. cHitpren: Anne Bancroft, Dec. 5,

1953; Julia Elizabeth, April 9, 1955; Susan Holmes, July 7, 1957; Patricia
Elise, Nov. 12, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Partner in law firm and trustee.
OFFICES HELD: Member, Planning Board, Town of Bedford, since 1963; vestry, St.

Paul’s Episcopal Church, Bedford, since 1963, Emmanuel Episcopal Church,
Boston, 1953-57.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Boston Probate and Real Estate Forum;
Harvard Travelers Club; Reserve Officers Association.

My comments in prior Reports have been confined to supplying the
statistics requested. Now as the Twenty-fifth approaches an assaying
look about seems to be called for, On the narrative I have continued in
the practice of probate law where I started out of law school. The frus-
trating delay of four years in the service, which ten years ago seemed still
a great hurdle, is now far behind. The delays of the law itself are often
worse for the young lawyer than for the outraged plaintiff. Wich the
passage of time, however, has come steady advance in experience, respon-
sibilities assumed and the inescapably important income. A few years ago,
with a view to retirement, a professional trustee who was both friend
and client invited me into his business which as it happens operates out
of an office across the hall. This work has turned out to be a most satis-
factory combination with my probate practice, and I now enjoy a feel-
ing of some reasonable success in my professional pursuits,

I note from the Twentieth Report with some relief that many of the
Class — at least as of that time — are in the same general position I find
myself in — that is, with no great claim to fame but a pleasant and in
most ways satisfying and busy life. Our third move in twelve years of
marriage brought us out to the country to the larger house my family

ee

LL AAA ese i - . —_~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 845

seemed to require on an amount of land more than adequate to satisfy

my desire for elbow room. Country living turns out to be most pleasant

after years of thinking I was really an urbanite at heart. Our four
daughters, ages five to ten, demand the usual amount of time, and this
ogether with working around the place keeps me occupied and provides

he exercise needed in the inevitable battle of the bulge. Activities in

qe town government and church affairs tax what little time is left. We

ok longingly at the barn and fields, but discretion indicates that horses

-d other animals can wait until the girls can supply most of the “man
wer.” It is a bit unnerving to note that classmates have children
}duating from college, and indeed some are grandfathers, while my

est is but ten. This result of late marriage may nonetheless serve to
p me young — or kill me with concern and impatience, particularly
move toward the era of four teen-age daughters. We hope when
time comes to escape on an occasional trip abroad if tuitions leave
hing in the all.
obably I am about at the norm of my appreciation of the exposure
arvard in my viewing with alarm the complacent attitude of the
e of the United States on important questions, and in my basic
ism that despite seemingly great odds, the country and the College
‘oubtless survive our days and go on to a greatness we cannot

1 with our worried eyes.

CHARLES TIFFANY RICHARDSON, JR.

 

 

saith. we a we

40 Rogers Rd., Stamford, Conn.

- State National Bank, 240 Greenwich Ave. Greenwich, Conn.

. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

E: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939.

ed 1962. cniip: Schuyler M., 1950.

king; investment department, portfolio analyst. Sry
ks Club, New Yorks Stanwich Club, Greenwich, Goats “>

ub; Harvard Club of New York.

’ ‘ ’ 4 * MMP, \ ‘o vit

Hon and a quick trip to Furope with Classmate Ink a

went to work as a credit analyst with the NM vet

' 4 ‘ ‘ ra esel Ko

Twas commissioned ensien tn the Naval be ts
. .* sa e | i’ \\ \ is

course became commanding officer of a VC be

846 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Caribbean area and exec of a DE on the west coast. After the war, I
moved to Panama as resident partner of the New York Stock Exchange
firm, Auerbach, Pollak & Richardson. While in Panama, experienced
several anti-Gringo riots, a presidential assassination and an abortive in-
yasion from Castro’s Cuba. While in Panama, I acquired a ward, an in-
fant Guaymi Indian boy who is now six years old and lives with me in
Connecticut. ;

My principal hobby is still, as it was in college days, rubber bridge.
For exercise I play golf and tennis and rake leaves, the latter seeming end-
lessly. Politically, I find myself closer to Goldwater than anyone else,
although I have a sneaking admiration for President Kennedy’s highly
articulate manner of expressing himself. As far as religion is concerned,
my daughter and I are fairly regular attendants at a small Episcopal

Church.

EDWARD PEIRSON RICHARDSON, JR.

weet

       

HOME AbDpRESS: 617 Boylston St., Brookline, Mass. 02146.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass. 02114.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; M.D., 1943.

MARRIED: Margaret Swann Eustis, Sept. 22, 195]. CHILDREN: Clara Lee, March I,
1953; Margaret Eustis, Jan. 31, 1957; Edward Peirson, July 29, 1959,

OCCUPATION: Physician: neuropathologist, neurologist.

OFFICES HELD: Current: neuropathologist, Massachusetts General Hospital; assistant
professor of neuropathology, Harvard Medical School; associate neurologist,
Massachusetts General Hospital; secretary-treasurer, Boston Society of Psy-
chiatry and Neurology.

MEMBER OF: American Neurological Association; American Association of Neuro-
pathologists; American Academy of Neurology; Boston Society of Psychiatry
and Neurology; New England Society of Pathologists; Civic Symphony
Orchestra of Boston; Harvard Club of Boston; The Country Club, Brookline;
Nahant Dory Club; Union Boat Club; Harvard Musical Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Short publications on neurology and neuropathology in professional
journals.

Upon graduation there followed for me four exciting, memorable and
happy years studying medicine at the Harvard Medical School. I was
then fortunate enough to become an intern in the Medical Service at
the Massachusetts General Hospital. I had at first planned on a career
in general medicine, but during Medical School and internship became

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 847

increasingly fascinated by the nervous system and its disorders. A
planned residency on the Psychiatric Service at the Massachusetts Gen-
eral Hospital was interrupted early in 1944 by a call into active service
in the U.S. Army. After basic military indoctrination 1 was among
those chosen for intensive training in neuropsychiatry because of the
great need, at the time, of physicians with some experience in this field.
My service in the Army was confined to acting as ward physician on
neuropsychiatric services in large general hospitals, first in “Tuscaloosa,
Alabama, then in Longview, Texas, and finally at Schofield Barracks,
Hawaii. I believe that I learned much professionally during this period,
although there were many difficulties associated with working with
psvchiatric casualties— especially, perhaps, in rear-area hospitals to
which everyone’s failures tended to gravitate. But, compared with many
of my medical colleagues, I was extremely lucky.

In the spring of 1946 I was released from the Army and then gladly
accepted the offer to finish the residency in psychiatry at the Massachu-
setts General Hospital that I had earlier just begun. In this appointment
I had the good fortune to be closely associated with Dr. Stanley Cobb,
the chief of that service, who is one of the really great figures in the
field of nervous disease in its broadest sense. Upon his advice, since |
wanted to gain more experience in neurology than had been possible
for me up to that time, I went to London in the fall of 1947 to become
a clinical clerk at the National Hospital for Nervous Diseases, Queen
Square. I spent in all fifteen months in London, nine of them in neu-
rology at Queen Square as originally planned, then an additional six
months in psychiatry at the Maudsley Hospital. It was a most enjoyable
period that I still remember with pleasure.

During my stay in England, I became increasingly aware that any

real understanding of neurological (and many psychiatric) diseases re-
quired a sound basis of knowledge of the alterations produced in the
ussues of the nervous system by disease processes — the study of which
is the subject matter of neuropathology. I decided therefore to return
to the Massachusetts General Hospital to work in neuropathology
under Dr. Charles Kubik, a universally-respected worker in this field
and a truly remarkable person. My appointment with Dr, Kubik began
early in 1949, and from the first combined work in the laboratory with
seeing and caring for patients. I became so fascinated with neuropa-
thology as taught by Dr. Kubik that this has subsequently become my
chief activity in medicine, I have stayed at the Massachusetts General
Hospital ever since. Despite increasing preoccupation with problems of
the laboratory, and with the administration of a training program in
neuropathology that has been developed at our hospital in recent years,
I have continued to have clinical responsibilities and ro be concerned
with the sick patient as an individual. I have also been in the fortunate
position of having teaching duties with Harvard Medical School stu-
dents in neuropathology and clinical neurology, as well as with colleagues
at various levels of postgraduate training, My professional activities, the
personal contacts occastoned thereby, and the general atmosphere and
spirit of the institution with which [ am associated are all that I could
possibly wish for.

That my life as a whole is so filled with satisfaction is to a very large

848 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

extent due to the joys of a life at home made possible for me by my wife,
Peggy, and our three growing children. Any who have been as for-
tunate as I in this respect will know what I mean by this. My work
has led in recent years to extended visits to Europe: to the Brain Re-
search Institute in Giessen, Germany, for six months in 1955, and in 1962
to Lausanne, Switzerland, where I was acting neuropathologist at the
university for two months, We have made these trips as a family, and
have shared together the gratifications — and problems — occasioned by
living in another country with a different language. Our recreations,
apart from those of ordinary family life, have included outdoor activities
such as skiing and skating in the winter, and sailing on the New England
coast in the summer. In addition to this, a major interest of my own
has been active participation as bass trombonist in the Civic Symphony
Orchestra of Boston.

The years as they have gone by have been good to me, Whatever
the future holds, | have much for which I can be truly grateful.

 

HOME ADpRESS: 7102 Broxburn Drive, Bethesda 34, Md.

OFFICE appress: National Science Foundation, Washington 25, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory Country Day School, Brooklyn, N.¥.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREES: a.B., cum laude, 1939; a.M., 1949; PH.D.,
1950.

Marriep: Frances Ruth Manson, 1955. cHitpreNn: Mary Susan, May 4, 1946; Gilson,
June 30, 1948; Anne, April 18, 1956.

occupation: Psychologist; assistant director (for Social Sciences), National
Science Foundation.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Association for the Aid of Crippled
Children, since 1961, National Training Laboratories, 1960-63; member,
board of publications, American Psychological Association, since 1962;
treasurer, Green Acres School, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Cosmos Club, Washington; American
Psychological Association (fellow) ; American Sociological Association (fel-
low) ; American Association for Public Opinion Research.

PUBLICATIONS: When Prophecy Fails, 1956; The Volunteer Work Camp, 1952;

“Psychological Aspects of Social Structure,” Handbook of Social Psychology,
1954; various articles in professional journals,

Although 1964 once (in the fall of 1935 when this long association
began) looked improbably far away, the years have passed swiftly and

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 849

have, on the whole, been full and satisfying. After college I studied and
worked at the social sciences — psychology and sociology — until the
war. Entering the Air Force as a private, I rose, more through luck than
skill, to corporal and was discharged in 1945 with advice to seek another
career, Returning to familiar ground, I took a Ph.D. at Harvard and
taught there until 1954 when I joined the faculty of the University of
Minnesota. During the next four years I taught, did some research and
consulting, married, fathered a daughter, gave up sports car racing, and
never quite learned to be happy while freezing.

In 1958 I took a leave of absence from the university and moved to
Washington to direct the research grants program in the social sciences
at the National Science Foundation. The leave stretched, then snapped,
and I’ve been here doing the same thing (on a somewhat larger scale)
ever since. I like it most of the time for it’s busy, it keeps me in touch
with new developments in my own field and others, as well as with na-
tional affairs. I’m surrounded by classmates and other Harvard men, and
I thus have a spurious feeling of being at home in this hurly-burly. The
government is really run by Harvard men and not just intermittently
but continuously as the little old lady from Wisconsin suspected. She
had asked us for a research grant we couldn’t make, and she interrupted
my explanation as to why we couldn’t by asking abruptly where I had
gone to college. When I told her, she muttered darkly, “I thought so,”
and ended the interview.

At home, life is perfectly ordinary too. The two splendid children I
acquired when I took my wife are now racing through adolescence and
about to bring me to ruin at the colleges of their choice. Our youngest
is bursting with second-grade knowledge and equestrianism (do the rest
of you have this trouble with daughters, or is it only Tom Gladwin and
I? It got so bad he had to write a journal article about it). We are
afflicted with all the joys of suburban living, being too poor to own either
a farm or a town house, and transplanting trees and shrubbery has taken
the place of squash and tennis as a way of keeping close to good physical
condition. My wife has (at least temporarily) abandoned speech path-
ology as a career, and after taking sabbatical leave from housewifery last
year she has become a potter.

All in all, it’s a decent life and, in spite of the innumerable alarums
and excursions of the last twenty-five years, we’ve managed to survive

_and even to prosper a bit. ’'m proud to say that my family thinks I
spend too much time traveling on business; that P've successfully avoided
— so far — ulcers, drugs, and excessive public speaking; and that I’m still
terribly inquisitive about the world and the people in it.

The next twenty-five years look to me like times of greater and more
upsetting change than we’ve yet seen. New nations, “new” races, more
people, bigger machines, larger organizations, and less margin for error
will combine to demand our fullest inventiveness and flexibility to keep
the world from coming apart, while still preserving the essential values
for which we have stood. I do not think we can avoid changes, I hope
we can handle them. -

° SEER HEE EEETEEVRRNNEKH EEE REE i Ihe Ae I te

850 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

WILLIAM HENRY RINES

  
  

  
  

HOME AppRESS: 86 Waite’s Landing Rd., Falmouth, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: WCSH-TY, 579 Congress St., Portland, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1940, DEGREE: A.B., 1939(40).

marrigD: Anne Randolph McConnell, July 26, 1941. cHitprReN: Anne Randolph,
May 21, 1943; Marjorie W., April 21, 1945; Henry M., Feb. 27, 1947; David

M., May 10, 1951; Leanora W., April 9, 1955; James P., June 11, 1957.

occuPATION: President, Maine Broadcasting System, a group consisting of two

television stations and three radio stations located in Bangor, Portland and
Augusta, Maine.

WILLIAM CAMPBELL RITTMAN

HOME ApprEss: 9 Village Lane, Bronxville, N_Y.

OFFICE appREss: Richardson-Merrell, Inc., 122 E. 42d St., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Taylor Allderdice High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREES: $.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1942(47).

marrteD: Patricia Anne Bybell, Nov, 26, 1949. cHipren: Walter Frank, Aug. 17,
1956; Frank S., Dec. 23, 1960.

occupation: Vice-president — International Services, Richardson-Merrell, Inc.

Entered Harvard Law School after graduating from college. Com-
pleted two years and was drafted. After shopping around among various
activities of the Army, finally got into the Army Air Corps and was
loaned to the Chinese Air Force, serving with it for two and a_ half

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 851

years in China. Discharged as a major; finished law school and then
spent seven years in a Wall Street law firm serving with little distinction.
Joined Pfizer International Inc., and was in charge of its foreign expan-
sion (that is, the grubby work of organizing foreign corporations, find-
ing local capital, negotiating contracts with local shareholders, etc.).
This was fun for a young man with a tolerant wife.

Hit all parts of the world regularly and one year was away on every
single holiday or important event, including Christmas, my first son’s
birth, my wedding anniversary and ground hog’s day. Have settled
into a quiet job watching others work. As vice-president for Inter-
national Services of my company (principal products being the Vick
line), I am in charge of international finance and manufacturing of all
divisions abroad.

Not a very distinguished twenty-five years, but I'll try to hold some
offices, be a member of some clubs, have some publications and patents,
and acquire some works of art for loan to the Fogg Art Museum by
the time of the Fiftieth Anniversary Report.

ROYAL ELISHA ROBBINS

wre

   

BORN: July 13, 1917, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Royal Elisha Robbins, °12,
Eugenia Greenough.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., cum laude, 1939.
pieD: May 23, 1942, Boston, Mass.

Royal Elisha Robbins died just prior to his graduation from Harvard
Law School. He was survived by his mother.

pop Fs gg op geaenagenegsmemes

B62 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939
5

EDWARD PIERCE ROBERTS

    

woMe appress: 201 Main St, Wenham, Mass.; South Hamilton, Mass. (P.O,

address) .
OFFICE ADDRESS: State Street Bank and Trust Co., 111 Franklin St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREE: a.B., 1939.

marrtep: Alice Jaques, Aug. 24, 1940. cHitpren: Edward Pierce, Jr., July 18,
1942; William W., Sept. 19, 1946; Joseph T., April 2, 1948; Alice Lee, March
14, 1951; Mary Jaques, Aug. 19, 1954.

occupation: Banking; commercial lending officer.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, State Street Bank and Trust Company; director,
XTRA, Inc., Boston; trustee, Pingree School, Hamilton, Mass.

MEMBER OF: Tavern Club, Boston; Myopia Hunt Club, Hamilton, Mass.

Upon graduation entered a Boston bank. Married in 1940, then the
war, spent thirty-two months overseas in the Mediterranean — Ground
Air Forces. War over —changed jobs to knit goods business in a small
town New England mill, Ware Knitters, Ware, Massachusetts. Lived
in neighboring rural town of Hardwick, Massachusetts. In 1957 resigned
from mill after eleven years and returned to the banking business in
Boston, the Rockland-Atlas National Bank. Later this bank was merged
with the then Second Bank-State Street Trust Company, and the com-
bined banks simplified the polyglot of names into the new State Street
Bank and Trust Company where I presently remain employed as com-
mercial lending officer.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 853

JAMES MURRAY ROBERTSON, JR. +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 3602 Dickerson St., Dallas 19, Texas.

RODNEY TAYLOR ROBERTSON

    

HOME ADDRESS: 100 Merriam St., Lexington, Mass.

OFFICE ApDpREsS: Little, Brown & Co., 34 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: S.B., 1939; LL.B., 1942(47).

MARRIED: Clare Matlack Haddock, June 18, 1942. critpREN: Rodney Taylor, Jr.,
Dec. 6, 1943; Tamzon Brooks, May 24, 1947.

occuPATION: Book publisher; director and general manager, Law Book Depart-
ment, Little, Brown & Company.

MEMBER OF: American, Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associations.

In the fall of 1939, I entered Harvard Law School, and I was half way
through my second year when my draft number was called in January,
1941. Induction, however, was deferred until July. After basic training
and O.C.S. (Fort Sill, Class No. 17), I was assigned to Headquarters
Battery, 358th F.A. Battalion, g5th Infantry Division, with which I
served until the fighting stopped, in the United States, England, France,
Luxembourg, Belgium, Holland and Germany. After a stint of military
government and G-s5 work I sailed for home from Marseilles on Thanks-

giving Day, 1945.

854 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Meanwhile I had become a family man: Clare and I were married in
New York on June 18, 1942, and young Rod was born on December 6,
1943. They held the home front in Wilkes-Barre, Pennsylvania, Clare’s
home town, until the time came for me to return to law school in
February, 1946. I had finally gotten my LL.B., acquired a small house,
and entered practice when Tam joined the family on May 24, 1947.

Clare and I both had seen enough of New York and its suburbs to
know that we preferred New England, and I entered a small Boston
law office to get a couple of years of diversified practice, planning to
locate in a smaller New England city after a couple of years of season-
ing and experience. Two years later I left the Boston office, ready, I
thought, to strike out on my own, but an unexpected and happy change
in my plans occurred when I was offered a job with my present firm.

Little, Brown and Company has been publishing books (law books as
well as fiction, biography, belles-lettres, etc.) since 1837, and I was in-
vited to participate in a program of expanded law book publishing
activity. Family friends had given me some interest in and knowledge
of publishing, I had been an English major, and had a law degree, so
things seemed to fit, but most of all the job offered the opportunity of
sharing in making something of a nearly moribund department. The
venture was successful both from a company and an individual point of
view: the dollar volume of law book sales for Little, Brown more than
doubled between 1949 and 1955, when I became law book department
manager, and I am proud to say that sales have now doubled again. It’s
interesting work, provides stimulating and rewarding associations, and
I’m glad to say there’s lots of challenge left in the job.

Clare and I have a comfortable smallish house (Royal Barry Wills,
circa 1936) in Lexington, having moved there from a big ark of a turn-
of-the-century place when the kids started going away to school. Tam
is now at Rosemary Hall in Greenwich and Rod is at Ricker, a small
but very good college in Houlton, Maine, about eight hours’ drive
north of Boston, right on the New Brunswick border. As a family and
individually I guess we've done all the usual things— nursery school
trustee, scouting, choral society, charitable fund drives, church fairs,
etc. Summers we spend on Nantucket, where we have a little cottage
at “Sconset (the eastern end of the island, where day trippers, thank
goodness, are not much of a problem).

And that about sums it up.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 855

DOUGLAS HILL ROBINSON

  

ges Sake ARE Ra a A AEE

HOME ApDpREsS: 113 King George Rd., Pennington, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 550 W. State St., Trenton, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: S.B., magna cum laude, 1939; M.D., 1943.

MARRIED: Margaret Rowan, 1943 (divorced 1951); Merle Schmidt, Feb. 14, 1953.
CHILDREN: Barbara Ann, March 28, 1944; Bruce Douglas, May 12, 1946; Carol

Joanne, April 9, 1947; Joan Beth, Feb. 26, 1954; Douglas Hill, Jr., June 10,
1957.

OCCUPATION: Physician, specializing in neuropsychiatry.
MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; County Medical Society; New Jersey
Neuropsychiatric Association; American Psychiatric Association; American

Aviation Historical Society; “Cross & Cockade”; Marine-Lujtschiffer-Kamerad-
schaft of Hamburg, Germany.

PUBLICATIONS: The Zeppelin in Combat, London: G.T. Foulis & Co., Ltd., 1962;
articles on aviation history in Journal of the American Aviation Historical
Society, “Cross & Cockade,” U.S. Naval Proceedings, Air Power Historian.

After four years of medical school, jumped into the Navy with a
navy internship and, in consequence of asking for a destroyer in the
Pacific, was sent to the Amphibs in the Atlantic and made the Normandy
invasion in an LST (more useful as an aircraft spotter than as a medic).
First became interested in psychiatry because of what was not taught
us about it in medical school, learned more in the Navy and have been
with it ever since, finding the work (particularly in office therapy)
fascinating and rewarding.

A divorce in 1951 was a shattering personal experience, but I have
climbed off the floor, am very happy with my second family and an old
home in the country on which we have done much work, with a
glorious view from the six windows of the upstairs study where I am
writing up to the Sourland Mountains, where the Lindbergh kidnapping
occurred years ago.

History and aviation have been constant hobbies and outlets, and
have done more and more writing in this field, with a first book, The
Zeppelin in Combat, published last year, representing years of spare-nme
research in former German Navy archives in Washington, and visits to
Germany to interview old gentlemen who were flying the crazy gasbags
over England half a century ago, Latest outlet: learning to fly in a
thirty-three-year-old open cockpit biplane, a Waco RNF, exquisitely



856 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

restored by a local acquaintance. Being a psychiatrist helps to under-
stand why this is the fulfillment of so many romantic dreams!

My greatest wish for my children (aged nine and six) is that they
should see the world as being as remarkable as I do; they have accom-
panied us on trips within the last year to Germany and Trinidad. Find-
ing time to do all the things that interest me becomes a problem: when
| had the time, I had no money; now I have the money and no time,

JAMES HENRY ROBINSON

 

HOME appreEss: 106 Boehmhurst Ave., Sayreville, N.J.

PREPARED AT: New Haven High School, New Haven, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1936-1939. DECREE: a.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Theresa Wistuba, Aug. 30, 1941. cHitpren: Maureen, Nov. 3, 1942;
James Henry, Jr., Sept. 19, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Field representative, Wage & Hour Bureau, New Jersey Depart-
ment of Labor.

My occupational record for the past twenty-five years has been un-
impressive. I have been able to secure reasonably good jobs in the
lower income federal and state occupations. From 1959 to February,
1963, I was employed as Supervisor of Licenses in the Office of Milk
Industry for the State of New Jersey. The job carried an impressive
title, a fair amount of responsibility and a decent salary but a propor-
tionate share of aggravation and problems. I resigned this Civil Service
job on February 4, 1963, and joined the New Jersey Department of Labor
Wage and Hour Bureau. I visit establishments employing women and
minors in the State and check for compliance with the regulations
promulgated by the New Jersey Department of Labor.

T have always been a Democrat but am not at all satisfied that the
policies we are working under are in the best interests of the national
welfare. I am deliberating as to whether I should maintain my Demo-
cratic dedication unless there is a decided change in many of our national
stands. I am particularly concerned about our dealings with Russia and
feel that we may fall a victim to their practised deccit and double talk.
However, I live in hope that our leaders will shortly come to a realiza-
tion that we cannot temporize with the Satanic philosophy of Marxism.

R 58 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Secretary, American Embassy, Ankara, Turkey, 1946-48; officer-in-charge,
Israel-Jordan Affairs, Dept. of State, 1948-52; First Secretary, American
Embassy. Madrid, Spain, 1952-55; director, Office of Near Eastern Affairs,
Dept. of State, 1956-60; minister-counselor, American Embassy, Tehran, Iran,
since 1960.

MEMBER OF: American Foreign Service Association; University Club and Metro.
politan Club, Washington, D.C.

During my years at Harvard I had concentrated on studies likely to
be helpful to me in a career in the Foreign Service of the United States.
After a brief stint as salesman in a Philadelphia department store follow-
ing graduation, I took and passed the State Department written and
oral examination for the Foreign Service in 1940 and in the spring of
1941 was appointed a Foreign Service officer of career. My first post
was the Embassy at Panama, Republic of Panama, where I served from
1941 to 1944, first as vice-consul and subsequently as third secretary of
Embassy. The strategic importance of the Panama Canal and the possi-
bility of Japanese attack or sabotage made this an interesting post during
those first years of the Second World War.

From 1944 to 1946, having been placed on leave status by the Depart-
ment of State, | entered military service (Army), serving first in the
Field Artillery and later in the O.S.S. in Europe. The latter experience
was very rewarding professionally. In 1946 1 was demobilized and
returned to the Foreign Service, being sent to Ankara, Turkey, as second
secretary of Embassy. I remained there until 1948 and acquired respect
and admiration for the Turks who steadfastly resisted the hostile pressure
being applied upon them at that time by the Soviet Union. Once again
my work was made interesting by the presence of a strategic waterway,
the Turkish Straits (Dardanelles and Bosporus), then the object of
direct interest on the part of the USSR.

In 1948 I returned to the scene of warfare, being detailed temporarily
as consul in Jerusalem at the time of the outbreak of the Palestine war.
The consulate general was in the front line area of the opposing Arab
and Jewish forces and was hit by rifle and mortar fire. The sniper’s
bullet meant for me fortunately missed but our consul general and
another staff member paid with their lives for their service in Jerusalem
during those hostilities. 1 was glad to leave this post of sad memories in
the fall of 1948 and to return to Washington as officer in charge, Israel-
Jordan Affairs, Department of State. There I stayed for four years
charged with handling United States relations with the turbulent Arab
and Israelis while being constantly buffeted by forces of partisanship
and prejudice originating both at home and abroad,

In 1952 it was a relief to leave Palestine behind and go to Madrid as
first secretary and chief of the Political Section of our Embassy. Again
1 acquired respect for the people of my country of assignment —
courteous, dignified, and cheerful in adversity, The land itself was a
joy, filled with historic cities, dramatic landscapes, and excellent bird
shooting and trout and salmon fishing. In r955 I reluctantly left Spain
to attend the National War College in Washington as one of the State
Department members of the Class of 1955-56. This proved to be a valu-
able year of study and research, as well as a rewarding opportunity to
get to know senior officers of other government agencies, particularly

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 859

the military, and to understand the philosophies governing them. What
made this year outstanding, however, was that during it occurred my
marriage to Miss Rosalind Hollow Morgan of Washington, D.C., and
Tulsa, Oklahoma.

In 1956 I returned to the maelstrom of Near Eastern Affairs, being
assigned to the State Department as deputy director and then director
of the Office of Near Eastern Affairs which handles United States rela-
tions with Israel and the Arab states of Syria, Jordan, Egypt, Iraq,
Saudi Arabia, Yemen, and Sudan. Once again turbulence, hostility, and
outright warfare such as the Anglo-French invasion of Egypt, the events
in Lebanon which culminated in the United States landings of 1958, and
the bloody Iraqi revolution of the same year. No rest for the office
director, work at night and on holidays being the rule.

In 1960 I again was liberated from the Near East, being assigned as
minister-counselor and deputy chief of mission at our Embassy in
Tehran, Iran, where I am writing this. We shall be here another year
and then who knows where? We have found this a fascinating country
of great historic interest, inhabited by a friendly and intelligent people.
There 1s good skiing and marvelous duck, goose, and woodcock shoot-
ing with no daily bag limit, and excellent trout fishing. It is interesting
to be here at a time when the Shah is carrying out a courageous “revolu-
tion from the top” which has completely altered the social and political
structure of this ancient kingdom. I have continued extremely happy in
this chosen career. It offers challenge, variety, and regular change; the
opportunity to travel to fascinating places and to be in on and perhaps
to influence world events. Most importantly, while providing an inter-
esting career and the personal satisfaction deriving therefrom, the Foreign
Service entails service to the country.

While my wife and I started late at the marriage game, we have been
fortunate in quickly having the number of children we wanted and in
the desired ratio of sexes. Our two sons, Stephen Wesson and Geoffrey
Morgan, were born in Washington, and our Persian daughter, Susan
Carroll, was born here in Tehran. This late-found family is a JOV.
Tehran is an excellent post to exercise my hobbies w hich are bird
shooting, fishing, skiing on snow and water, “and gardening. I have not

yet succumbed to the temptation to equip myself to go after the big
game to be found in Iran (bear, ibex, leopard, stag, and aouflon).

On the political side, 1 consider myself an Independent, part of the
famous “floating vote.” That about ties it up, 1 guess, except to sav
how sorry I am that I will not be in the country for this Important
Reunion of the Class of 1939. I find it hard to believe that twenty-five
years have passed since we graduated. For me, these years have been
eventful, stimulating, and immensely rewarding, and 1 w ‘ould not change

this career I chose when I left college and the way of life that goes
with it for any other.

860 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

LOUIS PRANG ROEWER

 

HOME appress: 7] Conant Ave., Auburn, Maine.

OFFICE appRESS: B. Peck Co., Lewiston, Maine.

PREPARED aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., 1939.

MaRRIED: Priscilla Breed, Aug. 26, 1942. cumpREN: Philip Breed, May 5, 1953;
Margaret Quinn, Oct. 24, 1954.

occupaTion: Retailing, division merchandise manager.
MEMBER OF: Martindale Country Club; Kiwanis; Chamber of Commerce; P.T.A.

After graduation entered retailing at Filene’s of Boston where I
trained for a year and a half.

Entered military service as an Army private in February, 1941, and
served in the South until commissioned at O.C.S, for military police,
December, 1942, Spent three more years in States and was discharged
January, 1946, as captain. ;

Returned to Filene’s and later transferred to B. Peck Company, Lewis-
ton, Maine, when purchased by Filene’s. Have remained in Maine ever
since, which I find is a wonderful place to live and raise a family.

Before we had a family, my wife and I regularly took winter vacation
in Florida where we both enjoy golf, swimming and racing. This past
winter also took nine-year-old boy and eight-year-old daughter to
Florida for vacation. Whole family enjoys Maine summers golfing,
camping and swimming.

On buying trips to New York, often see William Rittman of Bronx-
ville but seldom see other classmates,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 861

WILLIAM PRESCOTT ROGERS, JR.

¥ wee fc oH,

  

HOME ADDRESS: 337 West St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 275 Charles St., Boston, Mass.; 101 River Rd., Weston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., 1939; M.D. (Tufts Coll.) , 1943.
MARRIED: Dorothy Moll, June 18, 1949. cHILpREN: Susan Lancaster, March 25,

1951; Catherine Prescott, Oct. 2, 1952; Sarah Paul, May 5, 1955; William
Prescott, 3d, Aug. 11, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Practice of surgery.

OFFICES HELD: Member of surgical staff, Massachusetts General Hospital, Faulk-
ner Hospital, Newton-Wellesley Hospital, Massachusetts Eye and Ear In-
firmary, Pondville (State Cancer) Hospital; member, consulting staff,
Deaconess Hospital, Lemuel Shattuck Hospital; teaching appointments, Har-
vard and Tufts Medical Schools.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society; New
England Cancer Society; New England Surgical Society; James Ewing So-
ciety; Society of Head and Neck Surgeons; Dedham Country and Polo Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Nine titles in the surgical and cancer literature.

Following four fascinating and rewarding years in medical school
and surgical internship for a year at Bellevue Hospital in New York, I
made good to the U.S. Navy the commitment undertaken on December
8, 1941. There were eight months in the LST Fleet, including twenty-
eight days crossing the Western Ocean, many days in Scotland, Ireland,
England and, transiently, at Normandy. There followed four months
in Chesapeake Bay on the USS Dubuque (commissioned in 1905) and
later, at my request, with some resistance by BUPERS, transfer to a new
destroyer in time to participate in some hair-raising nights on the picket
line off Okinawa. After several months on the China Coast and Korea,
followed by six months in west coast naval hospitals, I re-entered civilian
surgical training. . ;

The next year was spent as a fellow in research and anesthesia at the
Massachusetts General Hospital, then five and a half more vears in
surgical training at Bellevue Hospital and Memorial Cancer Center in
New York City. 7

For the past ten years I have been practising general and cancer
surgery in Boston. The days are filled with clinics, teaching students
and resident surgeons in teaching hospitals, and in private practice. The
trouble with this life is the paucity of time spent with my family.

862 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Principal interests have been sailing, reading and trying to keep abreast
of the caretaking requirements of a 230-year-old house in Dedham.

My social convictions are flexible; politically, | become progressively
disenchanted with the current mode of substituting transient pragmatic
goals for principles and my religious conviction is Christian.

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADpRESS: Via Gaggini 16, Lugano, Switzerland.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; a.M., 1940.

Marriep: Anne McKnight, Jan. 14, 1948. cHILDREN: Roseanne Evangeline, July 2,
1956; Rebeeca Nadia, Feb. 16, 1959.

occupation: Manager of wife, opera singer, Anna De Cavalieri.

Harvard, Music, Travel. The Glee Club under Woody. The Choir
under Doc in his last five years as director. Baritone soloist and always
part of the small, select groups that sang in all the concerts and traveled
widely. Happy memories climaxed by the annual concert with Koussy
and the B.S.O. If taste is a product of study and experience, then this
was an incomparable background for someone trying to find his bearings
in the artistic world.

After singing and teaching in the Boston area for a few years, I went
to New York on a fellowship to the Juilliard Graduate School of Music
to study primarily opera, While singing in the operas there, I met my
future wife, Anne McKnight. From then on my life was to be inextri-
cably bound up with hers. We were married in New York City in 1948,
our last year of school.

Anne had sung with Toscanini that year and there was talk of her
going to Milan to study Italian opera. We went to Milan with the inten-
tion of staying six months. We have now been in Europe almost con-
tinuously for fifteen years! I have become the husband of an opera
prima donna with all that entails in the way of responsibilities and with
all of its satisfactions: manager, doctor, banker, travel agent, musical
adviser. Happy memories of the many operas performed at San Carlo
in Naples (where a direct descendant of the Barbaia who played such
an important role in the life of Rossini became our good friend), the
excitement of a debut at Scala, the intellectual satisfaction of perform-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 863

ing so many operas on the Italian radio, operas that are only a footnote
in the history of opera, but which are nevertheless well worth perform-
ing: “Loreley” by Catalani, “The Huguenots” by Meyerbeer, “Armide”
by Gluck, and many, many others; a wild “Tosca” in street clothes in
Rio de Janeiro — after an equally wild debut there as Turandot!

Incidentally, into this mad life of the traveling prima donna were
born two girls, Roseanne now seven, and Rebecca now four. Is it possi-
ble to describe the joys of boarding the sleeper from Barcelona to
Madrid with ten bags, one carriage, two children, and one prima donna!
Last fall Roseanne was due to enter the first grade. Father decided on
a most radical change. After fourteen years in Milan, he had had
enough of the smog and dirt. We have now been living in Lugano,
Switzerland, for over a year. The clean air, the beautiful surroundings,
the excellent schools make this just about an ideal place to live.

And now that we have had the joy of experiencing just about all of
Verdi and Puccini (we have been fortunate enough to collect all the
operas of Verdi), we are beginning the Wagnerian phase. Anne will
do her first Briinnhilde’s next year. By the way, Anne McKnight
became Anna De Cavalieri fifteen years ago. We were tired of the
constant misspellings!

JAMES WEST ROOSEVELT

. pe ates

     

  

HOME ApprREss: Ridge Road, Syosset, N-Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: J.C. Penney Co., 330 W. 34th St., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.1.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

MARRIED: Fillene Horan, June 18, 1945.

OCCUPATION: Buyer, J.C. Penney Company,

MEMBER OF: Port Washington Yacht Club,

After leaving college I worked for the Herald Tribune in New York,
and the American Mutual Insurance Company in Boston. In 194: |
enlisted in the Signal Corps Reserve. Later | transferred to the Air
Cadets and in 1944 was commissioned a radar maintenance officer, While
taking specialized training at Boca Raton, Florida, in) 1945, | married
Terry Horan, We spent a carefree summer most comfortably at Delray
Beach, after which I spent a year in Leyte and Clark Ficld, Manila.

ae LT TETHER ETT LT eee RAH PFEH YSERA oe: Oe nr

864 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Upon my discharge in the fall of 1946, I worked for a while in the
import business after which I joined the central buying staff of the
Penney Company where I am today.

We moved to Syosset, Long Island, about ten years ago, where I tend
a couple of acres of woods and too much lawn when I am not racing
and cruising in our thirty-foot auxiliary sloop in the summer or racing
an eleven-foot Penguin dinghy in the winter.

For the past year and a half I’ve been studying how to make scratchy
noises on the cello with the object ultimately of playing a little cham-
ber music now and then. Although I think there is some hope of
success, I gather from the expression on their faces that our two mongrel
dogs consider this aspiration pretty far-fetched.

For the record we’re all Republicans here.

LEE SANDER ROSENBER

G

SoBe ENE Ng NCETM

     

      

HOME AbpRESS: 701 Betula Ave., Cincinnati 29, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jewish Hospital, Cincinnati 29, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Walnut Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1939; m.p., 1943.

MARRIED: Dorothy Deutsch, Oct. 27, 1946. cHiupREN: Anne Elizabeth, May 11,
1948; Amy Lee, Feb. 1, 1951; Betsy Sander, June 8, 1953.

occupation: Physician, specializing in radiology; director, Department of
Radiology, Jewish Hospital, Cincinnati, Ohio.

OFFICES HELD: President, Radiological Society of Cincinnati, 1952-53.

MEMBER OF: National, state and local medical associations; Radiological Society
of North America; American Roentgen Ray Society; Ohio and Cincinnati
Radiological Societies; American Association for the Advancement of Science;

Losantville Country Club; Harvard Club of Cincinnati; B’nai B’rith; Cancer
Control Council of Cincinnati,

PUBLICATIONS: Several scientific papers in professional journals of radiology.

I spent four years more at Harvard after 1939, graduating from the
Medical School in 1943. Following an internship at the Cincinnati
General Hospital, I passed the next two and a half years with the USS.
Army, largely in the European Theatre. Most of this period was spent
as a surgeon with an Armored Infantry and Tank Battalion that saw
action in Eastern France, Luxembourg, and finally Southern Germany.
On the day the war ended in Europe, | received orders to be transferred
to a unit in the Air Force, an event which turned out to be the most

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 865

fortunate break in my entire life. For when I returned to the United
States several months later, still in the Air Force, ] was transferred to
a base in Biloxi, Mississippi, where I met a girl visiting there from New
York named Dorrie Deutsch, who would shortly become my wife.

‘After my discharge from the service I moved back to Cincinnati,
where except for one brief interlude in New York I have lived ever
since. Three and a half years of residency in the field of radiology at
the Jewish and General Hospitals in Cincinnati and at the Mount Sinai
Hospital in New York were followed by my appointment as a full-tume
member of the Radiological Department at the Jewish Hospital in Cin-
cinnati. In 1953 I became the director of that department, as well as of
the Cancer Clinic of the same hospital. I have also been active in the
University of Cincinnati Medical School, where as an assistant professor
of radiology I introduce the sophomore medical students to the uses and
limitations of this field of medicine.

My work has been deeply rewarding and satisfying. The hospital in
which I spend most of my working time is a progressive and expanding
institution. Both the hospital and my department along with it have
suffered from growing pains, the whole field of radiology likewise has
been expanding rapidly. The challenge of meeting the various problems
associated with these changes has been a great one. It has been particu-
larly satisfying to me to help establish at the hospital a center for the
radiological treatment of cancer. It has also been rewarding profession-
ally to have a number of scientific papers published in radiological jour-
nals and to take part in the scientific programs of local and national
radiological societies.

I have had great fun with spare-time activities, particularly golf and
music. I have been struggling hard for many years to get the little old
ball into the cup, but I can see now that my game will never get below
the mid-eighties. My interest in music goes back to my childhood, but
in the last five or six years I again took up the study of piano with great
enthusiasm. Tape recording has also been a source of considerable
enjoyment.

Dorrie and I have been fortunate in being able to travel to Europe a
couple of times during the past few years. These have been extraordi-
nary experiences, in part because of the opportunity of comparing the
present Europe with that which I knew during World War Il. The
changes of course are fantastic; the most striking observation jis that
although there are many evidences of the war which are still visible, the
whole episode appears to be receding into the background of history
as the newer generation comes along.

The greatest source of satisfaction and happiness in my life by far
has been my wife and family. Dorrie has been the central light of my
whole existence, and our three daughters have given us the greatest
possible joy and pleasure: Anne, fifteen, the blossoming teen-ager; Amv,
a twelve-year-old, interesting and bright who does everything well; and

Betsy, a highly lovable and feminine ten- -year-old. 1 could not have
wished for a more delightful family,

866 HARVARD CLASS OF | 939

ARNOLD ZANGWILL ROSOFF

   
     
 

 
   

 

 

428 TORR | me
y ees
a
:
: : Me eS 2

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Shady Hill Rd., Newton Highlands 61, Mass.

oFFICE AppRESS: Arnold & Co., Inc., 334 Boylston St., Boston 16, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Billie Tanner, Aug. 28, 1944. cHi~preN: Leslie Karen, March 9, 1946,
Lory Anne and Lyn Ellen (twins), Nov. 6, 1947.

OCCUPATION: President, Arnold & Company, Inc., advertising agency.

OFFICES HELD: Governor, 1954-55, president, 1958, National Federation of Adver-
tising Agencies; trustee, 1953-57, 1959-63, secretary, 1958, Temple Shalom of
Newton; member, executive committee, Norumbega Council of Boy Scouts,
1958-61; chairman of publicity, Combined Jewish Philanthropies, 1961-63;
vice-president, Business Men’s Council, 1962-63.

MEMBER OF: Advertising Club of Boston, Spring Valley Country Club.

Had I the opportunity in 1939 to see myself as I would be in 1963,

I can truthfully say I would have settled for my lot in life. I count
myself one of the fortunates and I count my blessings daily. Foremost
of these is my family; an attractive and charming wife whose mental
energies and intellectual capacities never cease to interest me; and three
lovely daughters warm like Schulz’ “Peanuts” cartoon, and whose occa-
sional achievements delightfully surprise me.

My business is only just short of what I had hoped it would be — and
that’s good because it keeps me trying. I get great satisfaction from the
fact that advertising was my “F.O.” as far back as the twenties. That I
run an advertising agency makes me feel 1 have had my eye on the
point, (Or have I been too unadventuresome to try something else that
would have proved more interesting?) A word about the image of
advertising. Much has been written lately to tarnish it. I have always
felt when there is bad advertising, look. for bad businessmen. When
advertising is tasteless, look for tasteless advertisers, Certainly there are
sad sacks in advertising, but no more nor less than there are bad lawyers,
bad doctors, bad accountants, bad teachers,

Religion continues to baffle me a bit. Like most who consider them-
selves sophisticated, I hesitate to argue the existence of God, but in
moments of stress, I keep turning to something inside myself that 1
most easily refer to by that name. I attend religious services too in-
frequently but am happy to note I have raised my children to believe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 867

in something to give them strength in tougher moments and to heighten
their sensitivity to right and wrong.

I note the majority of my Republican friends persist in reading the
Boston Herald (apologies to the publisher and classmate) but for the
life of me I can’t see why. I am a registered Republican, but 1 vote
across party tickets and find the national Democratic philosophy more
practical in this world in which we live. If we are to keep pace with
the sweep of humanistic movements — and not permit Western culture
to crumble before us—we must continue to establish the programs
that help those who can’t help themselves — or we will leave a vacuum
that other competitive philosophies will rush to fill. Goldwater bothers
me since he seems so impractical on one hand, admitting the need for
social securities, and on the other, preferring to see them taken care of
by “voluntary” contribution, or by local or state communities. By
Reunion time, the individual members of the Class of 1939 should be
well split on the 1964 election, but it won’t spoil the fun.

Finally, a word about Harvard and education. I felt great pride, as
I am sure all of us did, in the leadership Harvard showed with the big
drive for $82 million. It gave many other institutions the courage to go
ahead with major fund drives. I like the high level at which the faculty
sits. I like the job our former President Conant is doing in pointing
out the needs in secondary education. The students look more off
beat and they dress like something out of a class B movie on Paris —
but that’s Harvard Square’s problem. They jam the bookstores in Cam-
bridge more than we ever did and that’s the hopeful sign.

Reunion planning has been a warm experience for me. Working with

the committee in Boston has been something 1 wouldn’t want to have
missed.

GORDON LAMONT ROSS

 

HOME AporEss: 3100 Brookwood Rd., Birmingham, Ala.

OFFICE AppRESS: 2930 12th Ave., N., Birmingham, Ala.

PREPARED AT: Lewisburg High School, Lewisburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B, 1939; m.v. (Univ. of Pittsburgh),
1943.

MARRIED: Sue McCord, Sept. 12, 1947. cHitpren: Kathryn Ross, Aug. 2-4, 19;

Lamont Hood, 2d, Oct. 19, 1950; Patricia, April 25, 1952 (died July 2, 1952):
Deborah Ross, April 14, 1955.

itt eesti. <san amemanan abi tani acne amen een a ee ener



868 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

wo . «a : i imon-
occupation: Physician in field of ternal medicine; assistant director, 5

Williamson Clinic Group, Birmingham, Ala. ; ae .
MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Southern Medical Association; Ameri

can College of Gastroenterology; Birmingham Academy of Medicines mi

ingham Society of Internists; Vestavia Country Club; “The Club”; Homew

rane ae Noa eecates f truding intervertebral disc,”
tions: “Near electrocution as a cause of a protrudi ’
reeith Walter G. Haynes; “Selective XYZ Factor in C57 Black Mammary
Carcinoma E0/71,” with Albert E. Casey; “Ectopic Schistosomiasis Man-
soni,” with John Norcross; “Sustained Enhanced Growth of Carcinoma E0771
in C57 Black Mice,” with Albert E. Casey; “An unusual case of primary
hyperthyroidism,” with Elmer Bartels; “Nail changes in primary hyper-
thyroidism,” with Elmer Bartels.

After graduating in 1939, I entered the University of Pittsburgh
Medical School, graduating in 1943. I finished a general rotating intern-
ship in January, 1944, and was inducted into the Medical Corps of the
Army. After training, I was sent to the European Theatre of Operations,
where I served as Battalion Surgeon with the 44th Infantry Division. We
finished our European Operations, as temporary Army of Occupation
and then shipped back to the United States in early summer of 1945.
Then we went to Camp Chaffee, Arkansas, for training for invasion of
Japan. Fortunately, however, the war ended, and with it my military
career. My honors during the military consisted of the usual battle
ribbons, plus the Presidential Unit Citation and the Bronze Star Medal.

After my military career, ] became intent in the specialization of
surgery. I had a two-year residency but found that I became allergic
to the techniques for “scrubbing,” and so, I had to give up surgery. I
continued my training with a two-year residency in general pathology
in the Birmingham Baptist Hospital. Following this, [ had a fellowship
in internal medicine at the Lahey Clinic in Boston, 1949-51.

I returned to Birmingham in 1951, and joined the Simon-Williamson
Clinic where I have practised internal medicine, to the present time. As
I have indicated above, I was married in 1947, and we have three fine
children. Pat, the fourth child, unfortunately, died after only three
short months of life.

We are members of the Canterbury Methodist Church. Our politics
are primarily Republican, and particularly anti-Democrat. We lead a
pleasant life centered around the practice of medicine, our family life,
the rearing of our children, participation in community affairs... and
the practice of medicine,

870 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecrers: a.g., cum laude, 1939; a.M. (Boston Univ.),
1940; pH.p. (Harvard Univ.) , 1944,

ManniED; Rhode Regina Revman, Nov. 15, 1942. cup: Stephanie Andrea, Dec.
16, .

occuPaTION: Research chemist.

PUBLICATIONS: Sixty-five scientific papers; forty patents.

BERNARD SANFORD ROSSER

    

HOME AppRESS: 10 Sycamore Rd., Newton Center, Mass. 02159.

OFFICE appREss: New England Folder Distributing Co., 201 Stuart St., Boston,
Mass, 02116.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEcREES: a.B., cum laude, 1939; m.B.a. (Boston
Univ.), 1940.

MARRIED; Louise Vernon, April 17, 1943. cumpren: Helen Abby, April 12, 1948;
Andrew Vernon, Noy, 6, 1952.

occupaTion: General manager and assistant treasurer, New England Folder Dis-
tributing Company, specialists in dissemination of literature and display ma-
terials for the travel industry within New England.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Ward 8 Republican Committee, Newton; treasurer,
Spaulding School P.T.A., Newton, 1960-61.

MEMBER OF: American Philatelic Society; American Air Mail Society.

It is hard to believe a quarter of a century has passed since the rela-
tively carefree days of college. Where does time go? Three full years
were lost in that extravagant waste mankind calls war —in Finance and
the Air Force in the United States and the Pacific from 1942 through
1945. Somehow during that period I managed to establish the only real
positive thread of life still weaving an interesting and happy pattern,
my marriage.

International holocausts still threaten us and man’s inhumanity to
man remains an unresolved problem. We have made such fantastic
progress since the recording of history—and yet remain uncivilized!
Our hope lies in the future, in the realization that man has not yet
reached maturity. If we do not destroy ourselves first, we can expect
future generations to construct more solid edifices of human under-
standing.

I returned to civilian status in late 1945 to set up a home and begin in
earnest the routine of earning a livelihood. I re-entered the specialized
business of travel advertising, to which I had barely been introduced

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 871

before donning the uniform. By 1950 my family and I joined the trek
to the suburbs and purchased a small home which I still maintain. For
the first time I began to unfold the mysteries of plant hfe, enjoving
many successes among the multitude of frustrations. Now, however,
my aging back balks at much of the labor involved. I am hopeful
nature will overlook my new infirmities but I have grave doubts.

Short vacations have injected renewed spirit once a year or so. At
first with only my wife, more recently with the children. It is fun
to share the kids’ delights —if they cam agree on what they want. My
teen-age daughter naturally enjoys the more sophisticated pleasures.
My son couldn’t contain his bitter disappointment when his beloved
Red Sox were shut out twice as we witnessed (in agony) a double-header
at Yankee Stadium.

The youngsters have also pulled me into the usual community
activities. PTA suddenly becomes important. This past season |
magically was coach of my son’s pennant-winning Little League team.
In my neighborhood I am somewhat of a non-conformist. In a sea of
Democrats I am almost alone as a Republican, My insistence on fiscal
responsibility points many an accusing finger at me. I am a Liberal in
conviction despite believing that financial bankruptcy will not solve

our national problems. Religiously I am also a Liberal, disdaining ritual
and concentration on the moral heart. I disregard superstition (con-
sciously, at least) and mere custom for the truly fundamental tencts
that enable man to live at peace with himself and others.

In short, I find myself after twenty-five years secure in home and
family, in reasonably sound health, and able to provide suthcient bread
for my wonderful family. I believe I exercise good judgment in pohn-
cal affairs and contribute in a minor way to a better community, My
name will not appear in history books but perhaps there will be some
who will miss me when I am gone, It is with keen anticipation I await
our Twenty-fifth Reunion but for my wife it is old hat. She partici-
pated in her father’s way back in 1938.

GEORGE WILLIAM ROTHSCHILD

 

HOME AbprKEss: 321 Hamilton St., Evanston, IIL.

OFFICE ADDRESS: General American Transportation Corp. 1156S. Lasalle St.
Chicago 90, Ill.

872 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

PREPARED AT: Francis W. Parker School, Chicago, HL.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; J.D. (Univ. of
Chicago), 1942.

marrieD: Valerie Myers, March 16, 1946. cHitpren: Jane Ellen, Oct. 30, 1947;
John Steven, Aug. 22, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; general counsel, General American Transportation Corpora-
tion.

OFFICES HELD: Associate general counsel, Foreign Operations Administration and
predecessor agencies, Mutual Security Agency, Economie Cooperation Ad-
ministration, 1949-55; associate, Root, Ballantine, Harlan, Bushby & Palmer,
1946-49.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago; Illinois Division, American Civil Liberties
Union; American, Illinois and Chicago Bar Associations; American Jewish
Committee; American Veterans Committee.

After graduation I spent three years at the University of Chicago
Law School. That graduation was followed by four years in the Navy,
which provided brief but valuable service in Norfolk, Virginia (where
I met my wife, Valerie Myers, sister of Classsmate Van Myers), and far
longer service on a destroyer, USS Burns, with the fast carrier task
forces in the Pacific.

Early in 1946, both the Burns and my then lieutenant (s.g.) uniform
were simultaneously “mothballed.” I was married and began practising law
in New York with the Root, Ballantine firm. In 1949 I went to Wash-
ington to join the legal staff of the Economic Cooperation Administra-
tion and stayed with its successors in the foreign aid field until 1955,
winding up as associate general counsel of the Foreign Operations Ad-
ministration. That stint in government involved travel to Europe and
South Asia and very interesting participation in the shift in economic
and technical aid programs from the relatively simple short-term matter
of making up European deficits caused by war dislocation to the very
complex and long-term effort of helping to improve the economies of
the so-called underdeveloped areas.

I returned to Chicago in 1955 to join the legal staff of General Ameri-
can Transportation Corporation, a diversified company which leases
and manufactures railroad freight cars, operates tank storage terminals
and manufactures a wide range of products for industry. I find a
variety of interesting legal problems, matching the diversity of the
company. In 1961, I was appointed general counsel.

Extracurricular activities include service with such professional and
charitable groups as Chicago Bar Association committees, including one
on consumer credit in Illinois, the Board of the Illinois Division of the
American Civil Liberties Union and a public housing committee of the
Welfare Council of Metropolitan Chicago,

When time permits, I enjoy sailing, tennis and sharing other hobbies
with my wife and children.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT B73

ROBERT FRIEND ROTHSCHILD

  

ee RE Ne MPR OM

 

b.

HOME ADDRESS: 4640 Delafield Ave., New York 71, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: John Stuart, Inc., Park Avenue and 32d Street, New York. N.Y.
0016.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, Riverdale, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Maurine Pupkin, Radcliffe *40, March 2, 1941. cHitpreN: Katherine,
Radcliffe 65, Oct. 26, 1943; Peter, May 11, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, John Stuart, Inc.: vice-president, director,
John Widdicomb Company; treasurer, director, Simulmatics, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Decorative Furniture Manufacturers Association: Hirwh
trustee, New York Society for Ethical Culture.

MEMBER OF: A.A.A.S.; American Physical Society; American Mathematiwal Se.
ciety; Institute of Radio Engineers; Harvard Club of New York: Stuyvesant
Yacht Club; U.S.P.S., J.N.; Federation of American Scientists; Ameriean
Civil Liberties Union; Museum of Modern Art.

PUBLICATIONS: U.S. Patent Nos. 2,539,482, 2,669,199 and others.

I have a largish small business of a hundred twenty-odd employees —
or more accurately, two affiliated businesses, with offices in New York,
Chicago and Philadelphia. One of these, John Stuart, Inc. is distributor
for several leading furniture manufacturers in the U.S. and also pio-
neered the importation of Danish furniture to this country (we account
for about a quarter of Denmark’s furniture exports). The other com-
pany, John Widdicomb Company, is one of the oldest and largese furm-
ture manufacturers in Michigan. I am also actively interested in a new
business, Simulmatics, Inc., a public company recently organized to
market a service based on some revolutionary new tec hniques fore stra
lation of behavior of large populations in form suitable for ultra-sophiser-
cated mathematical study. (We did the New Fork Tires suindy on
election night, 1962, expect to do “64, and have recently written wene
long range contracts to do analyses for U.S. and foreien governinenrs
The latest of these is a contract to do a simulation ef the econemy of
Venezuela.) These strictly vocational interests, stumulanng and chal
lenging though I find them, together with a couple of cloemess rity
trusteeships, occupy somewhat more of my life than PE would eho
and I find all other interests 1 should like to nourish, crowd tres
corners of my time or omitted entirely.

For two years after graduation [was in the family furmrure be

874 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

When the war came I returned to Cambridge, where I was to become
sort of instructor in the electronics program at Cruft for radar officers
My wife (Maurine Pupkin, Radcliffe ’40) worked at the Harvard Film
Library to carry us through this period of uncertainty. When this
job didn’t suit me, I went to Sperry Research Labs, where I worked
happily all through the war and for a year or so after, doing develop-
ment work on the first Early Warning systems. I also invented a
couple of aircraft navigation systems which were superseded almost as
soon as they were produced.

In 1946, I returned to the business world and moved from Long Island
to Riverdale to be in the neighborhood of the Fieldston School, where
I had prepared and where we were determined to send our children
(born in 1943 and 1946). Our years as parents have sped by. The
children have had a most inspiring education at what President Conant
once called “the best private school in the country,” and their inspira-
tion has been communicated to their busy parents. We participated,
more than most parents, in school affairs from the start, but in recent
years have made a kind of avocation of education. I have resuscitated
old interests, taking a number of graduate math courses at Columbia,
and have participated a little in the revision of the math curriculum,
even teaching an extracurricular math course for advanced high school
seniors. Maurine has been attending Teachers College and now is teach-
ing full time at the Halsted School in Yonkers. We are both trying
to find more time for these activities. Surprisingly enough, both children
seem to share our inclinations. Kathy, now a junior at Radcliffe, ex-
pects to do graduate work in English, with teaching as a possible goal.
Peter, only now a senior at Fieldston School, talks of a career in teach-
ing history of political science. Maurine, of course, having had her
degree from Radcliffe in government, has managed to stimulate both
children and me to a certain amount of participation in public affairs.
She herself was president of the League of Women Voters and served
on the Commission to revise the New York City Charter, so that the
local political leaders are in our circle of acquaintances. Many activities
(from which she as a non-partisan office-holder would be barred)
Maurine has delegated to the children or to me —like working for the
Committee for an Effective Congress, or co-chairing the local Volun-
teers for Stevenson (and I would be glad to do it again in 1964, 1968,
or 1972, if anyone asks me!).

[ can’t conclude this without reference to two other family interests:
art and sailing. As for the former, we have some artist blood in the
family which expresses itself in collecting in the older generation, and
creating in the young. As a result, our walls and shelves have Roths-
childs alternating with Picassos and Mondrians, and I must say that
prejudice makes the contrast quite acceptable to the parents. The Fogg
has a few things we have given them—a couple of Futurist drawings
and a deChirico drawing on loan. (Incidentally, the Fogg also owns a

Judich Rothschild collage it purchased years ago from my sister, Judich,
who is married to Anton Myrer, ’47.)

But our greatest passion for the past fifteen years has been — and
is — the sea and sailing. We built, a few years ago, a magnificent forty-
two-foot fiberglass yawl in which we have so far only sailed from

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT Ro 5

Maine to Florida. In years to come, we expect to broaden our horizons
and sail ourselves to all the places we have so far visited only as tournts
—and a lot of others.

WILLIAM STANHOPE ROVE, i

ae ee eee

SRR re metn Mpceermemgeg ners tnt meee

   

beg

HOME ADDRESS: 4765 Burley Hills Drive, Cincinnati 43, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fifth Third Union Trust Co., Cincinnati, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Martha Phyllis Whitney, July 8, 1939. CHILDREN: George Whitney, Nov,
25, 1940; Nancy S., Jan. 9, 1943; Jennifer S., Oct. 7, 1944; M. Whitney,
April 4, 1947.

HARVARD SON: George Whitney Rowe, ’62.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Fifth Third Union Trust Company, com-

mercial bank.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Fifth Third Union Trust Company, Drackett Company,
Emery Industries, Inc., Taft Broadcasting Company, Baldwin-Lima-tliltona
Corporation, R. K. LeBlond Machine Tool Company: trustee, Convalescent
Hospital for Children, Cincinnati Orphan Asylum, Children’s Home of Cin-
cinnati, President’s Council, Xavier University.

MEMBER OF: Porcellian Club; Camargo Club; Commonwealth Club of Caneinnats:
Commercial Club of Cincinnati.

Actually seeing the 25th Anniversary Report with its accompanying
“before and after” pictures will be a sobering shock for many and tain
sure that I will be no exception, The sands of tw enty-fve vears have
run faster than most of us had ever anucipated and srabably lex bas
been accomplished than anyone would have hoped for art graduation
time.

Several weeks after rowing on the winning Harvard Crew at New
London in 1939, I was married and shortly thereafter settled down te
a banking career in Cincinnati, which except for cight vears in the East
attempting to get an education had always been my heme. Phas tein
quil and orderly existence was soon interrupted by four unedistingii ds A
years in the Army of the United States, from which Pwas hone!
discharged asac saptain after two vears of service in the EEO) Rercre
ing again to Cincinnati in 1946, I “became an otteer of the barch bes
Union Trust Company, which strangely named insticution wae te: ,
a commercial bank.

876 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

I have found this employment both interesting and mildly profitable,
and enjoy very much the community life in a city like Cincinnati. Here
there seems to be a proper mixture of the bucolic life and the hecticness
of a metropolis, I have been pleased to have been tapped for some of
the usual civic chairs, mainly of a fund-raising nature, and enjoy par-
ticipating in community activities. A membership in the almost ex-
clusively female Garden Club of America is not the least of my prized
possessions! Horticulturally, 1 am a little over my head, but the same
can be said for my activities in the cultural organizations I have
supported. In both areas my interest is great, but my knowledge remains
limited,

Having had a son recently graduated from Harvard I have kept in
reasonably close touch with university activities and continue to be as
proud of my college today as I was when admitted as a freshman in
1935. Contemporaneously with my 25th Reunion I shall have two
daughters graduating: one from Bradford and one from Wellesley.
My youngest daughter is still a student at St. Timothy’s School, Steven-
son, Maryland.

Making small contributions to society, raising a family and enjoying
life have made these past twenty-five years both active and interesting.
To keep pace with the ravages of past inflation and to provide for that
which is still to come, to say nothing of jousting with a predatory
government, should do much to make the next twenty-five years as
challenging as the period just concluded.

JAMES SPENCER ROWLEY t¢

  

——cee-AST MAILING AppRESS: 21 Grant St., North Attleboro, Mass.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 877

EDWIN IRWIN RUBIN

 

ef

HOME ADDRESS: Harmony Farm, Mechanicsville, Bucks County, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 301, New Hope, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Ethel V. Kline, 1941 (divorced 1951); Isis Melhado Hoffacker. 1960.
CHILDREN: Nancy, 1944 (m. Anthony Jacobs, 1962); Alexandra Hoffacker,
March, 1949; Ben F. Hoffacker, 3d, March 10, 1950; Charles F. Hoffacker,
Aug. 15, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Craftsman.

 

To quote a wise woman (B.V.): “I know who I am until someone
asks me.” F ortunately, we do not have to identify ourselves here, but
if possible I will give a full description for the soth Report, so stand by!

At the time World War II began I had been married and was em-
ployed by the American Silk Mills, Inc.—a family business — and as
silk was at that time the only material used for parachutes, our efforts
were directed to weaving fabric for this purpose. It became urgent to
develop a nylon substitute because the supply of raw silk had been cut
off from Japan. This was accomplished and we received the “E~ award
for our part in the development and production.

Enlisted in the Air Force in 1943 and spent the last year of the war in
North Africa. My wife and daughter Nancy had been living in Beverly
Hills, California, while I was overseas and I moved there upen my
return. Spent the major part of five years working for a company
fabricating steel furniture and related products. Returned east after ny
divorce. I knew that I would not like city living again, so [ chose
Bucks County, Pennsylvania. Have been here happilv ever since.

Will relate only the beginning of the past ten years here because
much of the tale is difficult to believe and becomes more so. All of
it is a delightful story to me.

Asa stranger in the town of New Hope, Thad been doing what most
visitors do, just wandering around enjoying the setting and atmosphere.
In the course of doing this, I entered a tiny shop in which leather was
hand made into belts and sandals, ete. The thought crossed my mand
that it would be very satisfying to be able to create something by hand
At that moment the owner came over to me and asked af E recenenized
him. We had not scen each other since clementary school ble had

878 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

gone to Yale, After some conversation and lunch we decided that ]
should buy his shop and take over his apartment so that he could return
to New York. A week later I did just that and retained one employee
to teach me the craft. A year later I was well on my way to becomin
a craftsman. Most important was leading a life I never thought possible
for me. For the first time I was part of a group including artists, writers,
craftsmen and individuals, The subsequent six-year period gave me the
time and conditions necessary to reflect, simplify and re-examine or
unlearn a great deal.

Three years ago Isis and I were married. Together we have a total
of four children. The eldest, Nancy, is married and attends college in
Rome, Italy. Our eldest son is at Ridley in Canada and the remaining
two in public school.

The shop has pretty well served its purpose. The Peace Corps and
similar projects have recently attracted our attention, but at this mo-
ment we have no convincing direction.

Our home is on ten acres with a lovely view in all directions of farm-
land and woods. There is a guest house, barn, stable and pool. Isis and
Sandra spend a great deal of time on our own horses and in schooling
others, Russell Lynes would no doubt call us upper bohemians.

RICHARD FRANCIS RUGGLES

=

    

HOME appress: 88 Prospect St., New Haven, Conn.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Economics, Yale University, New Haven, Conn.
PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREES: a.B., cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1941; PH.D.,
1942.

MarRieD: Nancy Dunlap, June 1, 1946. cHr~pReN: Ann Patricia, March 20, 1952;
Catherine Joan, Sept. 2, 1953; John Steven, May 8, 1955.
OCCUPATION: Professor of economics, Yale University.

MEMBER OF: Econometric Society (fellow and secretary) ; American Statistical
Association (fellow); International Association for Research in Income and

Wealth.

Spent the war years with the Office of Strategic Services in England,
Europe and later in Japan. Returned to academic life after the war,
first at Harvard, and since 1947 at Yale. Took leave from Yale (1948-49)
and worked as consultant to the Economic Cooperation Administration

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 879

in Paris. Continued over the years to serve as consultant to such groups
as the Bureau of the Budget, Department of State, Department of De-
fense, Census Bureau, Agency for International Development, United
Nations, Pan American Union and Ford Foundation. Currently teach-
ing and doing research.

TREADWELL RUML

 

HOME ADDRESS: 811 Sunset Rd., Winnetka, Il.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Encyclopaedia Britannica, 425 N. Michigan Ave. Chicago. Hl.
60611.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Priscilla Wattles, Dec. 27, 1941. CHILDREN: Beardsley. 2d. Jan. 29, 1943
(m. Alison Wheeler, Dec. 1, 1962) ; Susan, April 22, 1916: Jan. Nov, 4 Lot:
Beth; Steven.

HARVARD SON: Beardsley Ruml, 2d, °63.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president/Operations, Encyclopaedia Britannica.

OFFICES HELD: President and director, Allied Broadcasting Company, 1988 38;
member, Harvard Fund Council, 1954-56; president. Harvard Club of
Rochester, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: Country Club of Rochester; Harvard Club of New York.

In a Chicago railroad station on the way to Oklahoma and my first
job, I picked up a newspaper and read the news of Hitler's invasion of
Poland. This was in the fall of 1939 and after a year in the oil fichls I
joined the Army. The military was so impressed with mv Elarvard
degree that I wound up at Fort Dix as a private in the Infantry.

re pent the next five years in the Army — and in retrospect the only
part I regret was the long separation from Priscilla, We were married
on a seventy-two-hour furlough just before T went to OCS at Fore
Benning. Almost immediately after OCS LT went overseas with Cerner al
Mark Clark’s Il Corps. There followed three years of service in Atrica,
Sicily, Italy, England, France, Belgium and Germany, To reeurned te
civilian life in 1946,

I had the good fortune to become associated with the Muzak Corpers:
tion and in the fall of 1946 became their franchise holder in Rew hester.
New York. Our business prospered and by 1gc8 we were seniey
upstate New York from Buffalo to Albany, The Muzak fran hice was

880 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

sold in 1958, and I then joined my present firm, Encyclopaedia Britannica
in Chicago. . ;

We've been blessed with five children. Our eldest boy was graduated
from Harvard last spring (with honors and a Radcliffe bride) and now
attends the Law School, The two elder girls are busy discussing colleges,
One is a senior at Emma Willard, the other a sophomore at New
Trier — and the two youngest give us a lively and personal interest
in the teaching method revolution taking place in elementary school

classrooms.

BRONSON HARRIMAN RUMSEY

   

BorN: March 31, 1917, New York, N.Y. parents: Charles Cary Rumsey, ’04,
Mary Harriman.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939.

pieD: April 18, 1939, Guadalupe, Victoria, Mexico.

Bronson Harriman Rumsey was in his senior year with our Class
when he was killed in a plane crash.

 

HOME appress: 12 Duchamp PI., Chatham, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Colgate-Palmolive Co., 300 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT RN4

PREPARED AT: Bronxville High School, Bronxville, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; M.B.A., 1941.

MARRIED: Virginia Hoagland, Radcliffe ’39, Dec. 12, 1942. cHutworew: Joba Almy,
Jr., April 3, 1945; Carol Lockwood, May 16, 1948; Nancy Hoagland. March 3,
1952; Robert Walker, April 11, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Accountant; manager, corporate accounting.

OFFICES HELD: President, Albany Chapter, National Association of Coat Ae-
countants, 1952-53, Milton Avenue School P.T.A., 1956-57: member, «ince
1957, president, since 1961, Board of Education, Chatham (Borought, NJ.;
Cub Pack chairman, 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and New Jersey; National Association

of Accountants; Chatham Fish & Game Protective Association.

After graduation I spent two years at the Business School and
received my M.B.A. in June, 1941. Poor eyesight kept me out of the
armed services, and for the first three years of the war I worked for
the British Purchasing Commission and the British Ministry of War
Transport in New York City. In November, 1944, I joined General
Aniline & Film Corporation and worked for four and a half vears at
their Linden, New Jersey, plant. My wife and I left Manhartan in
January, 1945, and moved to Cranford, New Jersey. In April, 1948, |
was transferred to the Rensselaer plant of General Aniline & Film and
served as plant controller there for approximately five years. My lite
in the Albany area was occupied with National Association of Cost
Accountants’ activities which climaxed with the chapter presidency
in 195 2—-53.

In May, 1953, I joined the Colgate-Palmolive Company (New York)
and moved the family to Chatham, New Jersey, where we have been
ever since. My community life in Chatham has centered around the
school system starting with P.T.A. and then the Board of Fducation,
I have been a member for seven years and president for the last three.
Other community activities have included Cub Pack chairmanship,

Sunday School teacher for three years and canvasser for various fund
drives.

Currently, I am thrilled about our space and general scientific
progress and upset about integration and the moral and civic isuey that
have been exposed.

CHARLES FAIRBANKS RUSSELL

MOBO one, moi

882 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

orn: July 23, 1906, Floyd, Va. parents: William Amos Russell, Rosa Spencer
PREPARED AT: Floyd High School, Floyd, Va.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1940. DEGREE: s.B., 1939(40).

MARRIED: Marjorie M. Russell. cHiLb: a son.

piep: April 11, 1957, Roanoke, Va.

wivow: Mrs. Charles F. Russell, Floyd, Va.

While an undergraduate Russell was a member of the Council of
Government Concentrators and held an Associated Harvard Clubs
scholarship. He had not been heard from since the time of our Tenth

Anniversary Report when he wrote that he was a salesman, was married
and had a son.

HENRY EDWARDS RUSSELL

    

HOME ADpREss: S.0.M. Center Road, Hunting Valley, Chagrin Falls, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Carling Brewing Co., 9400 Quincy Ave., Cleveland 6, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, DECREE: s.B., 1939.

marrieD: Louise Harding, Aug. 22, 1939. cumpren: William Eustis, Sept. 18,
1940; Henry Edwards, Jr. Dec. 10, 1942; Louise Harding, Sept. 18, 1945.

HARVARD Sons: William Eustis Russell, 62; Henry Edwards Russell, Jr., ’65.

OCCUPATION: President, Carling Brewing Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of trustees, Children’s Medical Center, Boston,
1950-58, Boys’ Club of Boston, 1951-58, Museum of Science, 1950-58; mem-
ber, Massachusetts Board of Fisheries and Game, 1956-58; member, execu-
tive board, Greater Cleveland Council, Boy Scouts of America; member, board
of trustees, Cleveland Area Heart Society, since 1959, National Fund for
Medical Education, Cleveland Symphony Orchestra, since 1960, Noble and
Greenough School, since 1947; member, Council for High Blood Pressure
Research, since 1962; member, board of directors, Harvard Alumni Association,
1963 — three-year term; member, Canadian-American Committee, 1963.

MEMBER OF: Kirtland Country Club; The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.; Union
Club, Cleveland; Tavern Club of Boston; Harvard Clubs of New York and
Cleveland; Boston Madison Square Garden Club; City Club of Cleveland.

Following graduation and marriage (in August, 1939), both signifi-
cant and happy events of my life, I joined the First National Bank of
Boston as a member of its two-year training program, This association
was abruptly interrupted in October of 1940, when President Roosevelt
called the Organized Naval Reserve to active duty on four days’ notice.
As things turned out, this began a period of five and one-half years of

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT BMY

naval service besides putting an end to my banking career and life

in a duplex in Dedham with my wife and three-week-old som (Woilham
Eustis Russell, ’62).

The fourteen months prior to Pearl Harbor, serving primarily in the
North Atlantic, Iceland and the “neutrality patrol,” were frustrating to
the point that the tragic events of December 7, 1941, resulted in a real
feeling of relief in that the country then became officially at war. There
followed a two-year period of cruiser duty, characterized by frequent
and varied geographical change with convoying to the United Kingdom,
the landings in North Africa in November of 1942 and in Sicily in
July of 1943. During the Salerno build-up, I was ordered to what was
in fact, the other side of the world as aide and flag heutenant to com-
mander — Naval Forces Southwest Pacific, with headquarters in Bris-
bane, Australia, and Port Moresby, New Guinea. To the adolescent naval
officer this was fascinating duty with frequent exposure to General
MacArthur and other members of the big brass as they were tn the
process of turning a few very important corners. My naval service
concluded at Great Lakes, Illinois, as aide to the commandant, Ninth
Naval District. Although desk-bound, this assignment atforded an
exposure of lasting value to the other side of the gigantic war effort —
the training of men and the supplying of materials. When FE think back
to the dimensions of this effort, anything that has happened since,
including the space program, is small by comparison.

In mid-1946 (one son, Henry Edwards Russell, Jr.. "65, and one daugh-
ter, Louise, luckier), I hung up the navy blue and gold in exchange for the
grey flannel suit of Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborne, in its Boston
office, and living in the then little town of Wayland. After three vears
as a very junior account executive, I was moved to the headiuartets
office in New York working primarily on duPont and Lever Bros,
products. This was a happy time—rewarding in experience and in
exposure to stimulating people and many varied forms of business lite.

In 1950 an opportunity in Boston with great promotional challenge
came along, and with real regret in leaving BBDO | made the move
to executive vice-president of Suburban Centers Trust, the owners and
operators of Shopper’s World, Framingham, which was then coming
into being as one of the largest shopping centers in New Unglind. The
problems encountered in launching a project of such complesity were
many but selfishly the experience was of great value.

With a management change, I moved to another happy aseqiutiean,
this time with the New England Mutual Life Insurance Company as
research associate. After two years of interesting experience wy many
varied assignments, the long and sometimes TMV STEMOUS Ar Of a marie
ment search company tapped me for what has become an exiting aad
successful association with Carling Brewing Company - 4 ssrorons
aggressive organization which is making its name in the American bres:
ing industry. First, as assistant to the president (an assgarnent eon
ceived to teach me what really “makes the brewing industry dbebercan:

then as regional vice-president for New Fayland amd gener nae: +
of its then new Natick, Massachusetts, plant, Ehave been ante tts

the romance of the centuries of history and bore an the devi eer
the industry, fascinated by the tremendously intense level ot aon,

*
go.

884 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

and frustrated by the usual complexities of modern business life. In
1958 I was moved to Cleveland as executive vice-president and in 1962
was named president of the company.

As a business man, J am concerned by the steadily increasing encroach-
ment by taxation and control of government into business and private
life. This concern stems from a conviction that the fundamentals of the
great free enterprise system must not be shackled by inhibiting controls,
sometimes necessary as “temporary” measures in the delicate balance
of a sound economy, but with a habit of becoming “permanent” in our
economic way of life. Furthermore, I cannot rectify either in my
company’s fiscal affairs or in the management of the family budget a
philosophy of never-ending deficit spending which has found favor and
prevailed in recent times under the administration of both political
parties. The convenient political exhortation that “the people demand”
(this or that) has become overworked and is increasingly misused. In
many instances the people either don’t or can’t understand the programs
that they are “demanding” and, more often than not, the delicate matter
of “how do we pay for it” is subordinated or omitted. An indefinite
extension of this modern philosophy in our economy cannot help catch-
ing up to us with a negative, if not disastrous, result.

My course in the past twenty-five years has been a changing one.
Certainly, it has been unplanned and surely it has been lucky. I have
been blessed with a family who were willing to play my role of nomadic
wandering.

For whatever interest it might be to whoever might read these few
varied and personal words, I put a high value on a sense of humor, I
believe in the axiom of “it’s just as easy to be a pessimist as it is an
optimist, but the optimist has more fun”; I love people and am blessed
with many friends who are most important to me. Insofar as “this
troubled world” that we hear so much about is concerned, my only
worry is that we may be tempted to stray from fundamentals. I think
teen-agers and the present generation of youth are terrific — resilient,
resourceful and far more capable than some people appear to think they
are, of coping with current and future problems. I can’t find many
young people who despair at the “mess that we’re in.” Given strong
family “hearth and home” start, religious exposure upon which to
form their own basic beliefs, and the best possible education in a societ
that maintains the dignity of the individual, the future will be handled
very well. In this latter regard, J think Harvard College, without reser-
vation, with her demanding obligations of leadership, is the greatest
institution of its kind in the world. I have been very fortunate in staying
pretty close to her over the years.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT B85

LAWRENCE MILLER RYLE

 

HOME appREss: 445 E. 5lst St., New York 22, N.Y.; 887 Indian Rock Ave.
Berkeley 7, Calif. (temporary).

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Germantown, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; a.m. tUniv. of
California), 1963.

marRRIED: Alizette Dand, Feb. 13, 1954 (divorced 1962).

occuPATION: College administration (development), Hobart and William Smith
Colleges, Geneva, N.Y.; director of development; currently on leave to
complete doctoral in English at University of California, Berkeley, Graduate
School of Science and Letters.

MEMBER OF: American College Public Relations Association; American Alumni
Association; Geneva Rotary; Geneva Trinity Church; University Fund:
Actors’ Equity; American Federation of Radio and Television Artists; Screen
Actors’ Guild; Republican Club 8th Assembly District South. New York
City; St. James’ Episcopal Church, New York City; St. Mark's Episcopal
Church, Berkeley, Calif.; Harvard Club of San Francisco.

Gazing from the Berkeley hills Christmas dav, 1963, over the panorama
of San Francisco Bay, with a miniature Golden Gate bridge on the
horizon, and at my feet the University of California campus 1 detect
autobiographically curious evidence for justifying the evclical view of
history. The sparkling afternoon waters of the bay bring back metnories
of the Charles River Basin where I tugged on an oar to reverse a shell
and row back to Newell. My four years in Cambridge parallel the
current four I'll soon be concluding at another institution (of equal
rank!) as a full-time graduate student in English. But I'm getting ahead
of my story.

Outside of a commission in naval intelligence entitling me to the
routine frustrations of Washington, D.C. during the war, mv sears
following graduation from Harvard College gave me a chance to tewh
English at St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Massachuserny and at) Phe
Episcopal Academy in Philadelphia, home town, One summer wtile
playing apprentice stock at the famous Wharf Theatre in Proving crown,
I got bitten by the acting bug and came down with a chrome qrse ot
Broadwayitis. It lasted ten years and abruptly truncated a teaches:
career and my graduate studies at Harvard. But an cvetting wwirch ota
go from playing Mr. Chips in real life to my first role on the proto sca
stage as a hangman who murdered the Duchess of Malt Calas bioaiis

886 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Bergner) every night in John Webster’s Jacobean horror-play. Wonder-
ful years ensued, bigger and better parts, the birth of television, more
summer stock and stars, then a Hollywood debut in a clinker called
“Houdini” with Tony Curtis! All the while, getting known “in the
trade” but remaining unknown in that limelight which only public
recognition can turn on, True to a secret vow sworn ten years earlier
with my Thespic muse, I quit “show business” for good in 1956—
wealthier, wived and wiser — and returned to my first love: academia —
that second, untuned string on my professional lyre.

The move, from the Big City to a smalltown college, required two
years of preparation in public relations and fund raising with Lawson
Associates, Inc., Roslyn, Long Island, in order to qualify me for college
administration in the field of educational development. Our home in
New York, owned since 1947, we decided to retain out of habit as well
as a need for permanence.

In the position as director of development for Hobart and William
Smith Colleges, Geneva, New York, oldest of the Episcopal liberal arts
colleges (1932) in the United States, I was able to gratify simultaneously
my conviction to help advance the cause of higher education and my
lifelong interest in the church. Church-related colleges are neither
anachronistic nor irrelevant to the idea of a Christian education in this
country, They're just poor, My job was tailor-made— seven days
weekly, forty-eight weeks yearly, assisting the president (Harvard °21)
within the Second Province (New York and New Jersey) among
alumni, clergy, and “Friends,” plus soliciting foundations, selling endow-
ments and bequest programs. Meanwhile at home in Geneva, commu-
nity life made greater demands on our public spirit than New York
had ever made via all manner of participation and office-holding. There
was not time left over for any teaching, however, as 1 dug my place
deeper and deeper in academic bureaucracy, I remembered those course
credits toward a higher degree “on ice” at Harvard’s Graduate School
earned years ago. Why not take a sabbatical, go back and finish off that
Ph.D. in Enghsh? Thereby earning professional accreditation to move
on a level with my peers. Heads older and wiser than my own approved
the plan. Permission granted. In September, 1960, three years after
journeying to Geneva, we stored the frigidaire with a neighbor and
drove to the west coast where my wife had been born and thrilled to
return and where the English Department at Berkeley had been recom-
mended by my former adviser, Mr. Kenneth B. Murdock, at Harvard.

Now 1963 draws to a close and I satisfy my conscience in replying to
the efficient importunings of our Class-Committee in the nick of time.
1 am contemplating the end of a strenuous stint in “maturity” as a grad-
uate student and | look forward to teaching college English and writing
those books fate has charted in my experience and research. Retrospec-
tively I cherish, since leaving Cambridge twenty-four years ago, the
happiest regrets as well as the deepest questionings. But in returning at
this stage ironically to my initial field of concentration as an under-
graduate (English and American letters), I move in a spiral to complete
that cycle 1 mentioned. Three careers packed into half a life-time
(acting, fund raising and now scholarship), together with the necessary
moves and occupational challenges, add up to a pattern of classical

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT BR

purport — to complete one’s self, So much more still to learn and do!
Congratulations to every member of our Class. My greatest ambition:
to make the Twenty-fifth Re-Union!

ARNOLD SADOW

YOR eR OR ~~

    
 

ne gp

   

HOME ADDRESS: 150 Cooper Drive, New Rochelle, N.Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: Adler Electronics Division, Litton Industries, New Rochelle, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., 1939(40) 3 M.Ls. (Pratt Inst), 1955.
occuPATION: Technical librarian.

MEMBER OF: Special Libraries Association; American Library Association.

 

HOME apDpreEss: 178 Old Farm Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 454 Brookline Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, pecREES: a.B., magna cum laude, LOO, WH, Paes

MARRIED: Annette Y. Turn, June 16, 10446 cHitpres: Richard Joel, Jan 2h Prk.
Ronald David, June 21, 1951.

_ OCCUPATION: Physician, specializing in cardiovascular discasrs, povate pe
instructor in medicine, Harvard Medical School; avwsistant: vesting por
Beth Israel Hospital. ;

MEMBER OF: National Board of Medical Examiners Gliplomate) Viner an bo |
of Internal Medicine (diplomate); American Board of Cardenas %

arte,

aah,

888 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Diseases (diplomate); American Heart Association (fellow, Clinical Council
of Cardiology); Phi Beta Kappa; Alpha Omega Alpha; American Medical
Association; Massachusetts Medical Society; Massachusetts Society of
Examining Physicians.

pupuications: Co-author with J. E. F. Riseman et al., Electrocardiogram Clinics
1958, and Cardiac Arrhythmias, 1963, Macmillan Company; many scientific
articles, including “Heart Disease, Workmen’s Compensation and the Practic.
ing Physician,” New England Journal of Medicine, 1961; “Heart Disease
and the Law,” Tennessee Law Review, 1963.

In starting an autobiographical sketch of the years since graduation,
the first (and most horrible) thought is that I really can’t be that old,
The years have passed so quickly that I am sure (or, at least, would like
to believe) that I feel the same (or almost the same) as I did when at
college. However, the sad truth must be faced. Twenty-five years have
actually gone by, but reflection about them leads to the conclusion
that despite many problems, sad moments, and disappointments they
have, on the whole, been good years, happy, productive, and fortunately
relatively healthy ones for my family and myself, and there have been
a number of worthwhile intellectual, spiritual, and material achievements,

After graduation I went with a goodly number of fellow °39ers across
the river to Harvard Medical School, graduating under the Army’s
accelerated program in March of 1943. Then followed twenty-seven
months of further training on the medical service of the Beth Israel
Hospital in Boston, going through the hierarchy of intern, assistant
resident and resident, In July of 1945, Uncle Sam exercised the option
he had been holding for a number of years on my services, Eight weeks
of basic training at Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania, several months as
a ward medical officer at Fort Leonard Wood in Missouri, and twenty-
one months overseas in British Guiana and later Puerto Rico provided
some interesting non-medical experiences, but failed to make a soldier
out of me and the Army and I parted company in October of 1947.
Six more months of graduate training at the Beth Israel Hospital com-
pleted the formal educational requirements for certification as a special-
ist by the American Board of Internal Medicine. Then the big step —
the opening of an office in Boston for the practice of internal medicine
and cardiology. In i950 the examinations of the Board of Internal
Medicine were passed and in 1959 was admitted after another (and |
hope my last) examination to the subspecialty Board of Cardiovascular
Diseases.

Professionally, my activities have been devoted primarily to the
private practice of medicine in my specialties and as time has passed
the diagnosis and treatment of the ailments (physical and mental) of an
increasing number of the inhabitants of greater Boston have come to
occupy more and more of my time. However, have been able to keep
part of a finger in the academic pie of medicine by teaching cardiology
at both graduate and undergraduate levels at Harvard Medical School
and, also, by engaging in occasional clinical research in the hospital.
These activities have resulted in about fifteen scientific publications and
in the co-authorship of two books on cardiology and electrocardiography.
During the last few years I have developed a professional hobby within
my field in that I have become very interested and intrigued with the
interrelationship of heart disease and the law. This has led to several

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT BRy

publications on the subject, some traveling for lectures, and an idea for
a book which promises to take care of any spare time for the next
few years.

_Although medicine has been a demanding mistress, there still has been
time for a rewarding, enjoyable family life. During the internship days
1 met a comely lass from Portland, Oregon, who was studying dietetics
at the Beth Israel Hospital. Our marriage took place in june of 1944,
so we shall celebrate our twentieth during the week of my college
twenty-fifth. Two healthy, active sons, now twelve and fifteen and a
half, plus one dog complete the family and have provided us with a
great deal of pleasure and the inevitable multiplicity of problems in-
volved in growing up. Fortunately with Math A and Math 2 under
my belt from undergraduate days, I can just about keep up with the
new math now being taught in junior high school, so am able to save
face at home. Physically, of course, I cannot keep pace with my boys
and have to admit, as much as I hate to, that the advice I give to my
patients about being over forty applies to me as well.

The problem of college is still a few years away for my boys, so we
haven’t as yet come face to face with the reality of selecting a college
and being selected by one. As I look back at my experiences at Harvard
and examine the present aims of Harvard, I am hopeful that my sens

will choose Harvard and, more so, that they will prove to be worthy
enough to be chosen by Harvard.

HENRY SALOMON, JR.

 

BORN: March 17, 1917, Providence, R.I. parents; Henry Salomon, Lucia Angell
Capwell.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: s.B., 1939.
HARVARD BROTHER: Roger Blaine Salomen, ‘50.
pieD: Feb. 1, 1958, New York, N.Y.

Henry Salomon, Jr.. was a National Broadcasting Company executive
and producer of two of the network's most succesful series “Victory
at Sea,” and “Project 20.” In r957 he was made head of the Spectal
Projects Unit which was to create a wide variety of special interev
programs. His “Victory at Sea” serics won many of television's top

890 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

awards. In 1942 he was commissioned in the USNR and was later se-
lected by Professor Samuel Eliot Morison, ’o8, to assist in writing the
thirteenth volume of History of U.S. Naval Operations in World War
I. At the end of the war he studied the Japanese side of naval operations
as personal representative of the Secretary of the Navy. He received
the Distinguished Public Service Award from the Navy. He was sur-
vived by his mother, a sister and his brother.

 

HOME ADDRESS: R.D. 2, Ithaca, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ludlowville, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEcREES: A.B. 1939; s.m. (Univ. of Kentucky),
1941; pH.p. (Cornell Univ.) , 1948.

marriep: Nancy Smith, Aug. 26, 1939. cumpren: Timothy, Feb. 8, 1942 (m.

Katherine Durland, September, 1962) ; Constance, Oct. 8, 1944; Peter Brooks,
Jan. 19, 1953; Alice W., March, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Farmer, seed grower.

OFFICES HELD: Councilman, Town of Dryden, N.Y., since 1958; member, Board
of Education, Ithaca City School District, since 1960; director, New York
Foundation Seed Stocks Coop., since 1962; extension agronomist, New York
State College of Agriculture, 1948-52; member, board of trustees, Tompkins

County Hospital, 1956-61; director, Cayuga Producers Coop. 1956-61; mem-
ber, Tompkins County Youth Court Administration Board.

MEMBER OF: Country Club of Ithaca; Statler Club (Cornell University).

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT Rot

EDOUARD SANDOZ

  

BorN: March 23, 1918, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Edouard Sandoz, Evalyn
Potts.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED. CHILDREN: Margaret M.; Charles Edouard.

pieD: March 12, 1960, Boston, Mass.

Edouard Sandoz spent four years with our Class. He was a resident
of Eliot House and a member of the John Barnard Society and the
Dramatic Club. He had not been heard from since the time of our Tenth
Anniversary Report when he wrote that he was an artist-writer. Ele
was survived by his children.

KENNETH FILLMAN SANDS

 

BORN: Oct. 8, 1917, Boston, Mass. Parents: William Jacob Sande, (U7) Florence
Waddington.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. Deckers: a.8., 1939; woo CJohns Hopkins Pore,
1943.

HARVARD BROTHERS! Charles Eliot Sands, ‘28: Frederick Waddington “Nae be ot)

MARRIED: Harriet Hyde, Sept. 30. 1950, Boston. Mise. citar tbs:
Jonathan; Carolyn.

DIED: March 11, 1959, Milton, Mass,

82 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Kenneth Fillman Sands served in the Pacific with the Navy Medical
Corps during World War II. After the war he spent a year as resident
in pediatrics at Massachusetts General Hospital in Boston and then
engaged in the private practice of pediatrics in Rochester, New York,
where he was on the teaching staff of the Strong Memorial Hospital
and the University of Rochester Medical School. Since 1951 he had
been engaged in the practice of pediatrics in Milton and Boston and
was a member of the teaching staff at the Children’s Medical Center
and the Harvard Medical School. He was head of pediatrics at the
Milton Hospital and also served as physician for the Milton School
Department and was a member of the American Pediatrics Association.
He was survived by his wife and children.

PETER LOUIS SAPIENZA +

oe EME LATION T

ER
&

  

Sy PPS
a :

   

LAST MAILING appRess: 8 Appleton St., Malden 48, Mass.

RUSSEL ELLIS SARD, JR.

 
    

   

A
HOME appress: 98 Buxton Rd., Bedford Hills, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Trident Films, 131 E. 36th St., New York 16, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939.

MaRRIED: Miriam Clark, May 31, 1941. cuitp; Susannah Ellen, May 10, 1944.
occupation: TV and film producer.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT #3

While in college I started the North Shore Players in Marblehead.
The theatre ran for three years, the biggest success being “The Yellow
Jacket” with Alex Wolcott, Harpo Marx, Fay Wray and Rex O'Malley.
Alfred Drake was in the resident company.

1941, the Navy for almost five years, forty months at sea, mostly as
captain on an LST, lieutenant commander, Bronze Star, Commendation
Ribbon. Following the war I became a radio and television produccr,
mostly at Kenyon & Eckhardt and BBD&O. Worked on such shows
as “The Ford Theatre,” “Toast of the Town,” “Hit Parade,” “Celebrity
Time,” “Robert Montgomery Presents.”

By 1952 live television in New York had pretty much vanished either
to the coast or in limbo, and I worked until recently in film. For
the last several years I have teamed up with Jim Storrow, "40, in a film
company called Trident, which did documentaries and tape shows
We won first prize at Venice for the best TV documentary in “63. In
63 we embarked into feature film production, the first of which is
“The Crooked Road” by Morris West, which we hope to start shooting

early next year.

ROBERT WILLIAM SARNOFF
' a TR eR

    

HOME ADDRESS: 885 Park Ave., New York, N.Y. 10021,

OFFICE appREss: National Broadcasting Co., 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New York. NY.
10020.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Felicia Schiff Warburg, July 7, 1950. cuore: Rosita, June 22) Poot
(by previous marriage) ; Serena Warburg, Nov. 7. 1956: Clauha Jul, beb os,
1959.

occupaTION: Chairman of the board of directors, National Broaleacing Company

OFFICES HELD: Director, Radio Corporation of America. since 1957, Harvard Niuaines
Association, 1964 New York World's Fair. Advertising Counerl, Ninery on
Arbitration Association; trustee, Franklin and Marshall College: wee preand ot
Greater New York Councils of the Boy Seoute of America, Alums Cerne il of
Phillips Academy; president, International Rashi anid Pelesrcn Societe.
1952-53; vice-chairman, Public Information, for ln2 and lant Bed tro
Campaigns.

MEMBER OF: Overseers’ Committee to Visit the Graduate Sohoed af betas are at
Harvard University; Board of Visitors of the School of Putdie Keiaocme ant
Communications of Boston University: Telewienn Proneere: (orend Serect boot
Association; Association of Advertising Men and Bomen, Sige beat

8g4 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

The coincidence of seeing the New York World’s Fair take place as
I observe my twenty-fifth year out of Harvard makes me wonder
whether I'm living from one World's Fair to another. Having logged
rwenty-five years in the communications industry since my first job
in the radio division at New York’s 1939 spectacle, minus a World
War II naval tour, I'm now privileged to be a director of the 1964
World's Fair.

Between these milestones I’ve worked in Washington, D.C., California,
lowa and New York, been fortunate enough to visit nearly every state
in the Union and travel to most countries in the world. When I first
came out of Harvard I made a brief sortie into the study of law at
Columbia, but after three and a half years of naval service, two of
them as 2 communications officer in the Pacific, I decided Vd prefer
the communications business, I spent the next two years with a midwest
newspaper and a national magazine, then made the permanent step into
broadcasting in 1948 as a salesman in NBC, just as the new medium of
television was beginning its rise. Since that time I’ve worked in nearly
every area of this unique business where the real bosses are the millions
of American families that own television sets.

Growing up with an industry, trying to comprehend its purpose and
structure when the industry itself is constantly changing and develop-
ing, can be an instructive and challenging experience. When you are
serving daily an audience of millions of people, each with his own idea
of how he'd like to be entertained or informed at any given moment,
you find out quite emphatically that the more you learn the more there
is to learn, that perfection is a most elusive goal and that each attainment
has a disconcerting way of becoming a tough act to follow.

One of my most rewarding experiences was my association with a

a classmate, the late Henry (Pete) Salomon, in creating the first documen-
tary television series, NBC’s “Victory at Sea,” the story of World War

I naval operations of the United States and its allies. It’s symbolic of

world social and political development, I believe, that the entire series

has been shown on Japanese television and a further sign of the times
that last year | went to Japan to sign the contract granting NBC rights
to televise the 1964 Tokyo Olympics.

Another very gratifying involvement has been in the emergence and
maturing of television as the nation’s foremost medium of news and
information and political communication, a process that had its climax
in the historic televised debates between the candidates for the Presi-
dency in 1960. I had the opportunity to stimulate this revolution in
political campaigning by extending the invitation to the candidates that
made the debates a reality. In this connection, NBC last year commis-
sioned the American Political Science Association to undertake a study
of the best way to use television in political debates. By a pleasant
coincidence, the study group is headed by my former Harvard professor
of government, Dr. Carl J. Friedrich.

Like many Americans, ’m not committed to a political party, and I
find political and social labels increasingly difficult to decipher. I do
believe that an informed electorate is an effective one, and therefore one
of my preoccupations is gaining increased freedom from some of the
present restraints on broadcast media that prevent them from covering

—$$ a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 895

political campaigns fully and bar them from legislative proceedings.
This, together with broadcasting’s status as a licensed industry, involves
periodic appearances before Congressional committees and government
agencies,

I recently discovered I was old enough to add golf to my other
hobbies, which include deep-sea fishing, shooting, collecting sculpture
and contemporary art and, one of my favorite recreational devices,
doing absolutely nothing.

I can also assure the Harvard Admissions Office that it apparently
will have no problems with this branch of the Sarnoff family. One of
my daughters graduates from Swarthmore this year, and the other two
are aged seven and five.

         

LEON NATHAN SATENSTEIN

valorem gay

   

HOME appREss: 2800 Quebec St., N.W., Washington 8, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Office of the Secretary of Defense, The Pentagon, Washington
25, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREES: B.J.ED. (Hebrew Teachers Coll.), 1938;
A.B. (Harvard Univ.), 1939; Lu... megna cum laude (Northeastern Univ.),
1947,

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Staff director, Procurement Analysis Division, Office of the Secretary
of Defense; legal work and management in the field of military procurement.

MEMBER OF: Federal Bar Association; Political Science Association.

896 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

WILLIAM BAILET SAUNDERS

ie MENS Seo ATEN

 
 

Ee,

 

HOME appress: 8013 Whittier Blvd., Bethesda, Md.
OFFICE appress: W. B. Saunders & Co., 501 Cafritz Bldg., Washington, D.C. 20006.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m. (Ameri-
can Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Ruth Heringman, Dec., 1958. cHitpReN: Nancy Ruth, April 22, 1943 (by
previous marriage) ; David, March 3, 1943; Avram, Nov. 8, 1947.

occuration: Economic consultant; president of W. B. Saunders & Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; Democratic Club; American Society
of Traffic and Transportation; American Economic Association; American
Statistical Association; American Marketing Association; Highway Research
Board; Railway Systems and Management Association; National Press Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in technical and trade journals.

I was married two days after graduation and divorced in 1955. This
marriage gave me a daughter who is now a lovely young lady. In 1958
I married a warm, loving woman and with her two sons we are now a
consolidated family of five. Building on the experience of earlier years,
I now have the satin of love mingled with the sandpaper of the standard
family problems.

Work began in Washington right after graduation—as a junior
economist with a group of ex-Harvardians in the Department of Com-
merce — doing research for policy statements by the Secretary and the
President. Our group moved into defense planning after the Nazis over-
ran Holland and Belgium. When Leon Henderson set up OPACS, I
moved into the civilian supply division — with increasing emphasis on
utilities and transportation. By the time I had gone through SPAB, WPB
and ODT, I concluded that writing policy memos was not enough. It
was difficult to see what my own actual contribution had been to the
solution of any problem when dozens of others were writing the same
kinds of memos. The Army stopped my musings on this subject with
a tour of Camp Plauche before assigning me to OSS. None of the
physical skills or tricks of the OSS trade were useable when I wound up
—in Washington estimating Japanese economic potential and helping
select strategic targets. Looking back, this was probably my most difficult
job so far.

In 1945 I was discharged from the Army and became a research analyst
with the Association of American Railroads. Two years later, I set up

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 897

my own consulting firm— initially specializing in transportation and
subsequently broadening to include marketing, distribution, area develop-
ment and economic feasibility studies. It has been an exciting and
vigorous career. I have a feeling of achievement and creativity when we
solve any problem for our clients. Yet I enjoy the challenge of a broad
policy study such as we may do for a government agency — it becomes
a bigger and better policy memo than I wrote when I was three years
out of college.

Because of my Washington location as well as my work, I am con-
cerned with how well our government functions at home and abroad.
I do not feel we are progressing satisfactorily in our world role partly
because we have too limited a set of goals at home. In general, I think
our moral and educational standards are too low. This feeling is intensi-
fied by the shocking assassination of President Kennedy. Somehow we
must establish a national program to educate away hatred, lawlessness
and violence. I do not despair, because I cling to a faith in the future,
while I turn more and more to the older, deeper values. More and more
Harvard has become for me a symbol of these values, especially since
the era of McCarthyism. I cherish it accordingly.

KARL JOLIVETTE SAX

 

HOME ADDRESS: 152 Foxwood Rd., West Nyack, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lederle Labs, Pear] River, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School for Boys, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. bDecREES: s.B., 1939140); sm. (Yale Univ.d, 1953;
Pu.p. (ibid.) , 1955.

MARRIED: Marjorie Lee Bollinger, Jan. 17, 1942. cutroneN: Karl, 2d, Dre. 12. 1943;
Cynthia Lee, July 29, 1947.

OccuUPATION: Research chemist, steroids, pharmaceutical industry.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Rockland Friends Meeting.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: ‘Twenty-five publications; ten U.S, patents; numerone foreign
patents,

Back in the East again. Perhaps this is the last move before rere:
ment, but I think I said this last time!

898 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ROGER MARVIN SCAIFE

   
 

a oe : ~~” “

poe) peor
(| ' |
| i ww
Sf) VR

  

HOME appreEss: 1 Ledyard Ave., Cazenovia, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Gulf Oil Corp., 1001 N. Clinton St., Syracuse, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Shirley White, Feb, 23, 1946. cumpRreN: Roger L., Feb. 8, 1948: B ent

min L., May 24, 1950; Charles S., Jan. 2, 1952; Stephen W., May 23 roe

occupation: Area sales manager, Syracuse area, Gulf Oil Corporation. — ,
MEMBER OF: Cazenovia Golf Club; Cazenovia Club.

With the exception of arthritic legs and a rather large stomach it
seems hardly possible that twenty-five years have slipped by since the
final hectic days of June, 1939. While my career has not been out-
standing, it has had its share of rewards and pleasant associations which
at the moment make it seem very worthwhile,

Starting in August of 1939, I went to work for the Gulf Oil Corpora-
tion as a service station attendant in Brookline, Massachusetts. To some
this may seem hardly befitting a degree from Harvard College but my
early days spent on the “driveways” of Gulf service stations have been
a wonderful source of information and insight into the strange habits
of the great American motoring public. In rapid succession I moved

from Brookline to Cambridge to Commonwealth Avenue, Brighton,
and finally to Boston where I was appointed manager of Gulf’s then
largest service station in the area,

The year is now 1942 and I decided the time had come to help Uncle
win the war, so I enlisted as a private and was shipped to California
for basic training and to Fort Knox, Kentucky, for Officer Candidate
School, finally winding up with the Eighth Armored Division, first in
Louisiana and then overseas where we saw our share of action in the
‘Bulge” then “Roer Pocket” and Holland. As a platoon leader and
ater an acting company commander in an Armored Infantry Company
managed to win the Bronze Star and then later the Oakleaf Cluster,
oth of which proved very helpful on the point system and delivered

e back to Boston in January, 1946.
In February of that year I married Shirley White of Wiscasset, Maine,
d off we went to New York City to resume my career with Gulf

J Corporation,
starting with the job of supervisor of service stations 1 graduated to

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT Ryg

the job of sales representative after six months and after a vear and a
half at this work was selected for a special training program for young
executives. No sooner had I completed this program than Mr. Truman
backed up by the Army Reserve decided they needed mv talents to
win the Korean War, so back I went into the Army. I spent a dreadful
year trying to make soldiers out of questionable characters from Brook-
lyn. I was on orders for Korean duty when thanks to the etforts of my
good wife delivering a third child I was ordered home and back to Gulf.

Having spent so much time and money making me a young executive

the company decided they would give me a title, so 1 became manager of
merchandising of Gulf’s New York division. The title was fine and
the pay almost adequate but by this time we had four sons, two dogs and
a parakeet named Waldeen and we were getting weary of New York
suburban living, so when the chance came we accepted a move to Svra-
cuse, New York, to continue our efforts to promote the Gulf Oil
Corporation and to settle down in Cazenovia.

The move cost me my precious title but I did gain the dubious
honor of being on the staff of a brand new division. The brand new
division lasted for exactly one year and then cost reduction set in. The
division was abolished and the staff was shipped all over the country
except for myself. I was made area sales manager for the Svracuse area
which was a job to which I had always aspired.

So here I am today in a job that L like, with four growing sons the
eldest of whom is now in boarding school —the others go to public
school — living in a beautiful upstate New York community.

To some of my classmates, my career may lack in excitement and
material success. To me, however, I feel I have much to be thankful for
and a solid and interesting life lies ‘ahead.

ROYAL SOMMER SCHAAF

AEE SB SOE ED LONI te mapper eso an en

ra, ~~

        

:
lle airctaate arate Bema a lil

rere atiess:

HOME abprESs: 33 Seneca PL, Upper Montelair, NJ.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Prudential Insurance Co, of America, 213 Washington St, New eee,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, NEL
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecntes: ae magna cam faude, [DO wae boks
marRninD: Mildred C. Carper, Dee. 12, 19d. Cititome sn: Kate ¢ arper, Nepe To bok.

\

goo HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Susan Sommer, Dec. 10, 1948; Virginia Lee and Royal Albert, 2d (twins)
Sept. 7, 1951. '

occupation: Physician; associate medical director, Prudential Insurance Company
of America, medical underwriting of life and health insurance.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Association of Life Insurance Medical Directors of
America, since 1956; president, 1961-63, secretary, since 1963, Montclair Child
Guidance Association; secretary-treasurer, Practitioners Club, since 1960; sec.
retary, 1961-62, president, 1963-64, Doctors Club, Newark, N.J.

— MEMBER OF: Montclair Chapter, SPEBSQSA.

PUBLICATIONS: Reviews of cardiovascular literature for Archives of Internal Medij-

cine, 1949 and 1951; about six other scientific papers.

It seems likely that this enterprise will instance the mouse laboring
and bringing forth a mouse. Sull, 1 don’t want to rat, and debate is
fruitful only when the trap is open. So attend, Clio. (Are you woman
or muse? Squeak up.)

After a European summer, I entered the Medical School in September,
1939, and enjoyed four more Harvard years with excellent teachers and
vigorous and talented classmates, followed by a war-abbreviated intern-
ship at Massachusetts General Hospital. My two and a half years in the
Army were all ZI, including duty at two general hospitals, two station
hospitals and sixteen months in a medical and surgical training school
helping teach ward nursing techniques to basics. ‘Then back to Massa-
chusetts General Hospital for four residency years, concluding with
eighteen months as a National Heart trainee.

In July, 1950, I entered private practice of internal medicine and
cardiology in my home town of Newark, New Jersey, and for two
and a half years ran with the hare and barked with the hounds on the
usual irregular schedule. This program culminated in a week during
which I did not see my infant twins at all, they waking after I left home
and bedding down before I returned. An attack of introspection re-
sulted, and on recovery with mixed regret and relief I left the satis-
factions and harassments of practice to became a full-time medical
director with the Prudential Insurance Company of America. Eleven
years later I know that this career is correct for me, combining ever-
changing professional stimuli with a reliable increment of that priceless
ingredient, time.

Although, or perhaps because of, holding existentialist and Darwinian
views of life and human behavior, I am optimistic about the future,
believing that the dawning age of psychopharmacology will eventually
bring us acceptable means of controlling and rechanneling man’s aggres-
sive and reproductive instincts which to date have largely remained
proof against the external agencies of education and example. Mean-
time, life, especially the joys of the family, has been very good. Aside
from medicine, I have remained the active devotee of history that Har-
vard made me, gathering a library relatively extensive for these bookless
times (and for the space considered suitable by my patient wife). Other
continuing interests include music (fluting and barbershop quartet sing-
ing), collecting (steel engravings and certain postal cancellations), and
the outdoors (woodcutting, clamming and canoeing — chiefly the rivers
of central New York State). May the next twenty-five years come close
to equaling the last!

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT gor

RICHARD JONAS SCHEUER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Willow Ave., Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: City and Suburban Homes, 130 E. 59th St.. New York 22, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937, 1938-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1939(40).

MARRIED: Joan Gross, Sept. 15, 1946. cHitpREN: Richard Jonas, Jr., Sept. 16,
1947; Marian Bea, Oct. 9, 1949; Barbara, Sept. 16, 1951 (died December,
1952); Daniel, June 4, 1954; Jonathan, Dec. 3, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Owner and manager, real estate firm.

OFFICES HELD: Trafic Commissioner, 1956-59, Planning Commissioner, 1959-61,
member of board, since 1961, Village of Larchmont; member, board of
governors, Hebrew Union College, since 1962; member, board of directors,

Citizens’ Housing and Planning Council of New York City, since 1963.
MEMBER OF: Beach Point Yacht Club.

After a year on an apartment house construction job, I enlisted at the
Signal Corps Photo School, then to OCS and a radio squadron in Italy.
Worked on a couple of construction jobs and built some one-family
houses after the war; remodeling work has occupied me since.

Joan and I have been active in local Democratic politics and enjoy
sailing and skiing with our four children.

HERBERT FREEMAN SCHMELZER

 

HOME appreEss: 1120 Park Ave., New York 28, N.Y.



902 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

OFFICE ADDRESS: 22 E. 40th St., New York 16, N.Y,
PREPARED AT: Alpena Central High School, Alpena, Mich.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1936-1939, DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1942(46).

MARRIED: Barbara Elfenbein, July 11, 1954. cHILpREN: Susan Barbara, Feb. 26,
1957; Anne Elizabeth, Nov. 13, 1959.
occupation: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York; National Demo.
cratic Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Legal articles.

After graduation entered Harvard Law School with Class of 1942,
Graduated in 1946 after time out for military service in North Africa,
Sicily and Europe.

Have engaged in private law practice in New York City since 1946,
except for an interlude during which I served as law clerk to U.S. District
Judge John F. X. McGohey. Have been specializing in commercial
litigation for several years and am occasionally assigned by the court
to represent indigent defendants in federal criminal cases. I also serve
as a court-appointed referee to hear and decide cases in the New York
Small Claims Court.

I continue to enjoy law practice and do a great deal of reading —
English history, mostly. My greatest satisfactions come from the wonder-
ful companionship of my wife and the never-ending delights and sur-
prises furnished by my young daughters. I devote as much of my

summers as I can to lowering my golf score — with, I fear, very small
success,

DONALD CARL SCHNEIDER

    

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: St. John’s Rectory, Whitesboro, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Auburn High School, Auburn, N.Y,
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1938.

marriepD: Marian Hall Weller, Sept. 8, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Parish priest, St. John’s Rectory; Episcopal Diocese of Central New
York.

OFFICES HELD: Editor, The Church Messenger, Diocese of Central New York,
1952-56.

MEMBER OF: American Church Union; Society of St. Margaret (priest associate) ;
Society of Mary (priest associate).

Upon Jeaving Harvard I soon went to work as a general assignments

904 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Sunday: full sacramental life including the sacrament of Holy Penance.
There are two assistants, and one of them no doubt has influenced my
life and thinking more than any other mortal. He is the Right Reverend
Kenneth Mackenzie, retired Diocesan Bishop of Brechin, Scotland, an
outstanding scholar, a faithful pastor, of strong character, a handsome
gentleman filled with the loving-kindness, joy and humor which are
marks of the true Christian. At eighty-eight he still maintains a full day
of prayer, meditation, writing, teaching plus the usual round of priestly
and pastoral work.

In 1960 I became the rector of St. John’s Church, Whitesboro, New
York, a suburb of Utica. The parish is lively, growing, with lots of
children, and I am most happy here. Mrs, Schneider teaches freshman
English at Utica College. My only brother, Robert M. Schneider, resides
in nearby Canastota and is the proprietor of a florist shop. My parents
also reside in Canastota, New York, but spend each winter in Punta
Gorda, Florida. God willing, next May they will celebrate their golden
wedding anniversary.

The summer of the same year 1 moved to Whitesboro I returned to
St. Patrick's, for my first return visit. After purchasing a second Volks-
wagen, I again toured France and Germany and at Oberammergau saw
the celebrated Passion Play; then driving south through Switzerland,
Italy and France I toured Spain for the first time and saw a bullfight
at Barcelona.

Again this past summer I made a return visit to St. Patrick’s, purchased
my third Volkswagen and toured France, Belgium, Holland, Germany,
Denmark and Sweden, At Kiel, Germany, I found what is left of the
modest home where my father’s maternal grandparents lived before
they emigrated to America; during the second World War the house
was hit and burned by an Allied bomb.

Although I am proud that I had the privilege of being an undergraduate
at Harvard, the truth is that if I had sons (or daughters) to educate, I
believe I'd urge them to attend a Church college. As I look back, I
realize how poorly I was prepared for life at Harvard. But that is beside
the point. More important is the fact that Harvard, albeit an outstand-
ing university, is completely secular and is training men for a com-
pletely secular life, and I'd wager heavily that among the Harvard men
who have attained secular prosperity and secular success— and _ this
would be a high number —a surprisingly highly number of these, es-
pecially as the years pass by, have found that secular life (the world of
money, influence and position) is shallow, if not empty, and has no
true and enduring values. In other words, the veritas which is so familiar
to Harvard men is not truly veritas unless it is veritas in Christo.

A much more serious threat, in my opinion, to our republic than
communism without is secularism within. And what an indictment it
is that even our courts are giving their support to the divorce of the
Holy Gospel from public life, eg. Christian prayers in public schools
And in England too the Church slowly but surely is giving u its
control of schools to secularism. P

One final word: a present ambition of mine is to take a gro
altar servers on a visit to Washington, D.C., to tour the White oe
and to pay our respects to John F, Kennedy, Class of i940. _

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 995

ROBERT ERIC SCHNITTGER

F wort a | Ps

  

eo
*
senna 2aes in we Mendnltaadac ANB 1 a al

  
 

HOME ADDRESS: 8970 Evergreen Drive, Mentor, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Schnittger & Walker, 37931 Vine St., Willoughby, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Western Reserve Academy, Hudson, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; LL.B. 1942.

MARRIED: Louise DeL. Boswell, 1942; Barbara S. Bentley, 1944. CHILDREN: Robert
Eric, Jr., 1943; Robert K., Sept. 24, 1945; Barbara Ann, April 18, 1948;
Katherine Lynne, June 18, 1952; William Anthony, Feb. 6, 1957.

OccUPATION: Senior partner, Schnittger & Walker, attorneys-at-law.

OFFICES HELD: Councilman, Mentor-on-the-Lake, Ohio, chairman of Safety Com-
mittee and secretary of Planning Commission: 1947-51; board of trustees,
Lake County Memorial Hospital: 1951-59, chairman of beard: 1957-59;
Assistant Lake County Prosecutor: 1952-57; Lake County Polio Chapter:
1949-59, chairman: 1950; vice-president, American Red Cross, Lake County,
1954-55; various boards of trustees for Methodist and Baptist Churches and
various offices in same.

MEMBER OF: Knights of Pythias; American Legion; Lake County Bar Association:
Harvard Law School Association; Harvard Law Club of Cleveland; Paines-
ville Country Club; American Bar Association.

After graduation from law school in 1942, I spent four years in the
U.S. Army Air Force, leaving as a communications officer. Returned
to Cleveland, Ohio, with a wife and son, and practised law for three
years with Halle, Haber, Berick & McNulty; because of living in Lake
County, decided to open my own office in Painesville, Ohio, in toga,
and retained my private practice until 1960. During this time, I served
as Assistant County Prosecutor for Lake County from 1952 to 1967.
Three more children came along, making a wonderful family unit of six.

In January, 1960, I formed a partnership with Sheldon R. Walker,
now consisting of four attorneys, and because of an amazingly rapid
growth of our practice, we have just purchased a fine building and have
just opened our new offices in Willoughby, Ohio.

My son, Robert K., is matriculating at Cornell this month; although
his scholastic ability is high (he was a finalise in the National Merit
Scholarship) and I feel sure would have benefited greatly at Harvard.
he has for some eight years been determined to become a farmer. At
least I was able to talk him into an Ivy League school Our two
daughters, though also doing well in school, will probably not be canst
dates for Harvard, so my hopes now rest on our youngest son, whe just
entered the first grade. My wife comes from New Phaven. foimer ber

906 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

while stationed there during the war. The Air Force sent me to (youl
pardon the expression) Yale for communications training.

In the small amount of leisure time available, I spend it golfing, boar-
ing, bowling, reading and travel and recreation with the family. A
very full life. At the risk of being trite: what happened to the last
twenty-five years?

EDWARD HOLYOKE SCHOYE

SEL MISE

R

eS

        
  

HOME ADDRESS: 5524 Dunmogle St., Pittsburgh 17,-Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1800 Oliver Bidg., Pittsburgh 22, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; tL.B. (Yale Univ.),

MARRIED: Elizabeth B. Foster, July 5, 1943. cuHmpren: Judith H., June 3, 1945;
David K., Oct. 21, 1946; Elizabeth P., Sept. 7, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner, Buchanan, Ingersoll, Rodewald, Kyle & Buerger,
engaged in general practice of law.

OFFICES HELD: Various offices, First Unitarian Church of Pittsburgh; trustee,
Ellis School, Pittsburgh, since 1960; several committees, Allegheny County
Health & Welfare Association, 1960, 1963; member, board of directors, Pitts-
burgh Chapter, American Civil Liberties Union, 1963.

MEMBER OF: Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club; Pittsburgh Golf Club; Duquesne
Club; Pittsburgh Law Club (all in Pittsburgh).

* LEROY ADOLPH SCHREIBER

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 907

BORN: Dee. 13, 1917, Plymouth, Mass. paRENTS: Adolph Louis Schreiber, Lillian
urley.

PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R.L

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1940. DECREE: A.B., 1939140).

MARRIED: Virginia Martin.

pieD: Killed in action, April 15, 1944, in the European Theatre.

Leroy Adolph Schreiber enlisted as an aviation cadet in 1940 and was
commissioned the following year. He served as a flying instructor for
a time and went overseas as a captain in April, 1943. He was attached
to the Eighth Air Force, accomplished 140 fighter combat missions and
destroyed sixteen enemy planes in combat. He was awarded the Dis-
tinguished Service Cross, Distinguished Flying Cross with four oak leaf
clusters and the Air Medal with two oak leaf clusters. He was promoted
major shortly before he was killed in action over Germany. He was
survived by his wife.

DENISON WILT SCHWEPPE

 

HOME AppREss: 80 East End Ave., Apt. 18A, New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Case & Co., Inc., 600 Fifth Ave., New York. N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939. DEGREES: a.B., 1939; me.a., LOE.

MARRIED: Eleanore T. Schmidt, July 8, 194+. cHitpren: Eleanore Darst, Oct. 15,
1949; Denison Wilt, Jr., Oct. 18, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Management consultant.

OFFICES HELD: Partner, Stevenson, Jordan & Harrison, 1957-61; vice-president,
Concrete Structures, 1961.

MEMBER OF: The Creek, Inc.

Like all of you, I find ir difficult to realize that twenty-five vears have
passed — and that I've joined the ranks of those supposedly “doddering”
alumni I used to observe while an undergraduate!

After graduation from the Business School in 1941, T went ta work at
the Norton Company as a methods engineer. While in Worcester, Enet
Elen (Eleanore Schmidt Van Sicklen — New York geirk, visiting mutual
friend) and we were married in July, 1944. Meanwhile, 1 had beeoine
an ensign in the Navy. Because of mv manufacturing backyround, |
was assigned to run a Naval Ordnance Plane in middle Georgia,

Upon returning to Connecticut, after the war, E worked for a saall

a

908 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

manufacturing company in Bridgeport while Elen and I enjoyed life in
nearby Fairfield. Hated to leave there—but a job as assistant to the
vice-president of Saco-Lowell Shops lured us to Saco, Maine. Those
were busy, happy times as (1) the job was challenging; (2) we were
restoring a lovely old Captain’s house — circa 1796; (3) our daughter,
Eleanore, was born in 1949.

In 1950, the position of production manager for Foote Brothers took
me to Chicago. Two years later, we happily returned east and settled
in our favorite spot-—the North Shore of Long Island. At this point,
1 was assistant vice-president of a manufacturing company on Long
Island. “Spare” time was filled with restoring our second antique house
—this one circa 1745 — playing tennis and golf at the Creek Club —
sailing and enjoying our proximity to New York’s cultural attractions.
To top all this, in 1953, our son, Denison, Jr., was born.

Both Elen and I have been interested in many community projects
and, before consulting kept me away so much, I was especially interested
in the Family Service Association.

Management consulting claimed my interest in 1955 when I joined
the firm of Stevenson, Jordan & Harrison. In 1957 I became a partner.
Decided to try my hand at independent consulting in 1960 and then
joined Case & Company when it was formed in 1962. This field still
offers the most challenge to me and no business problem seems too
complex to tackle.

Last fali the Schweppes became New York City “cliff dwellers.” We
reluctantly left Locust Valley, Long Island, but find most weekends are
spent out there anyway. To our surprise, we are enjoying our “new way
of life!” Both children, and our huge poodle, Gigi, have adjusted very
well. Denison, Jr, thinks St. Bernard’s is great and Eleanore loves
Chapin. The East River view, Gracie Park and our sunny (but sooty)
terrace help us keep in touch with “the country.” Also, it’s great to see

more of my family — which this city living allows!

JOHN SHEDD SCHWEPPE

 

HOME abpress: 30 Indian Hill Rd., Winnetka, IIL.
OFFICE appRess: Wesley Hospital, 250 E. Superior St., Chicago, Ill.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H,

EE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 909

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. prEcREES: a.B., cum laude, 1935; m.o. (North.
western Univ.), 1944; s.m. (ibid.), 1948.

MARRIED: Lydia Elliott, July 17, 1943. cHmpren: Leigh E., Jan. 7, 19-47; Charles
H., May 22, 1948; David P., March 16, 1952.

occupation: Medical research; director, Steroid Hormone Laboratory, Wesley
Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Associate in medicine, Northwestern University Medical School;
attending physician, Chicago Wesley Memorial Hospital, Research Section;

member, board of governors, Menninger Foundation, Topeka, Kans.; United
Charities of Chicago.

MEMBER OF: Endocrine Society; American Chemical Society; Chicago Institute
of Medicine; American Fed. Research; Chicago Medical Society.
PUBLICATIONS: Medical and scientific publications.

Since the days of 1939, many fruitful events have transpired. Medical
school at Northwestern proved a rewarding challenge. I met Lydia Fl-
liott in 1943, married her and, as happened with so many, ended up in
the China-Burma-India theatre with a cavalry unit, mule-equipped. My
years in the military service ended in 1946, and I was then united with my
family.

The Mayo Clinic was my next residence. Two children were born,
Leigh and Charles. Our years have proved happy and fruitful. 1 ex-
panded my knowledge of medicine and undertook some research work in
enzyme chemistry.

Six years (1950-56) were spent in Topeka, Kansas, at the Menninger
Foundation. Here I worked with the Foundation at various athliated
hospitals and developed considerable interest in the neuro-endocrine
mechanism and the general problem of growth and development. We
felt it best to return to the Chicago area for further work in biochemistry.
While in Topeka, we had the addition of our third child, David. All of
them have been a source of happiness.

I worked at Northwestern Medical School from 1956 to 1960, in steroid
hormone metabolism. We lived in Northfield, a suburb of Chicago,
Here we engaged in Boy Scout work and, as my hobby, tumed to hunnng
and fishing. The children find much enjoyment in both sources. In the
interim, we bought a small ranch near Aspen, Colorado, and have uscd
this delightful place for skiing and fishing. In addition, the cattle herd
supplies us with some rather tough, muscular beef.

My political views tended strongly toward Fisenhower and the old
principle of self-determination of nations. I shall make few comments
toward the present administration other than to say [TE wish some tn.
dividuals had taken advanced courses in business administration, a Plar-
vard specialty.

Since 1960, our life has changed a bit. becoming more urban and less
rural. We moved to an old structure in Winnetka and proceeded to te-

model] it. It looks quite well, and is comfortable. We are alwave gla
to see our classmates. I moved my research laboratory to Wesley bles
pital and since then have been investigating hormones and breast cancer,
and the mode of action of hormones,

We all plan on reviewing old acquaintances this coming year.

910 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

DAVID SCULL

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 631 E. Gravers Lane, Philadelphia 18, Pa.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939,
marrico: Patricia Grant, Aug. 5, 1939. CHILDREN: Eliot Wadsworth, Aug. 16,

1941; Marie D., Sept. 9, 1943; David, Jr., April 29, 1951.
HARVARD SON: Eliot Wadsworth Scull, 63.
occupaTioNn: Investment.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

Following graduation and marriage I spent two years in the investment
banking business in Houston, Texas, then four years of Army service with
overseas duty in Europe with the 8th Division, After separation from
the service, we spent four years in Laredo, Texas, farming produce. We
returned east and spent five years in agricultural sales work, and since
1955 I have been self-emploved in a conglomeration of enterprises which
include failures as well as successes.

From the sum of the experiences of the twenty-five years, I have
learned, I think, what is important and what is not; but I am sure that the
greatest happiness lies with old friends, the next generation and the same

lady who is my favorite companion still.

EDWIN SCRIBNER SEA

PSST SE gp MRR CORRE IES:

BURY

somber +

   

   

   
 

\
a

HOME appress: Old Denville Road, Boonton Township, N.J.

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT git

OFFICE ADDRESS: Radio Frequency Laboratories, Inc., Boonton Township, NJ.

PREPARED AT: Tome School, Port Deposit, Md.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1938.

MARRIED: Frances Elizabeth Nichols, March 15, 1945. CHILDREN: Edwin Scribner,
Jr., July 11, 1946; Elizabeth, Jan. 25, 1950; Sarah A., March 7, 1955; James
A., June 19, 1963.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, Radio Frequency Laboratories, Inc... manu.
facturers of precision electronic test equipment and data transmission
terminals.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Riverside Hospital, 1952-55; chairman, Boonton Town-
ship Board of Adjustment, 1952-55; member, Boonton Township Board of
Education, 1958-60; Boonton Township Representative of Morris County
Republican Finance Committee.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers; Nye’s Neck Yacht
Club, North Falmouth, Mass. (director and past commodore); Grand Jurors
Association of Morris County.

ROBERT ALEXANDER SEARS ¢

Wie tea SP8 i Hig dec ainsi Re ie tage tel

    

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 11] Peachtree Battle Ave., N.W., Atlanta, Ga.

PAUL PHILIP SELVIN

lancet dasa. ane tan: Raienibshe FE

  

HOME ADDRESS: 11556 Coolidge Pl. Los Angeles 66, Calif.
OFFICE appRESs: Selvin, Cohen & Rosen, 120 El Camino, Heserly Hille, @ att
PREPARED AT: Weaver High School, Hartford, Conn,

gl2 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecreEs: a.B., 1939; tx.p. (Univ. of Connecticut)
1949. °

MARRIED: Marian Glater, Oct. 25, 1946. cHILDREN: Molly, May 28, 1951; Peter
Sam, Dee. 1, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Attorney-at-law.

OFFICES HELD: Professor of law, Loyola Law School, Los Angeles.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; United Chapters of Phi Beta
Kappa; Los Angeles and Beverly Hills Bar Associations.

PUBLICATIONS: Short stories in The Antioch Review, Hairenik, University of
Kansas City Review, Twice A Year; various notes and articles in law reviews:
co-author with Judge William J. Palmer of “The Development of Law in
California” (the introduction to West’s Annotated California Codes).

Some of us who join in the ritual of doing “autobiographical sketches”
for 25th reunions will probably do two records, one private, and one for
publication. The reason is not hard to find: The public record and the
private life are not always consistent. Even when they are, the public
record is not always the same as the private record. I have started both
of my records with that thought, and who can say which one will be
mailed for publication.

In both versions, however, I must admit that some of the most signifi-
cant events in my life resulted from accidents or events over which I had
no control. I do not mean that this is unusual; J suspect that chance plays
a greater part in most lives and careers than our egos will permit us to
admit.

The first major “post graduation” event for me, as for all of us, I am
sure, was the war, I was in the Army for four years, three of them over-
seas. I entered as a private, was discharged as a warrant officer. That
seems a long time ago (almost as long ago as graduation from college).

The second major event for me was attending law school. This too
was essentially fortuitous. 1 had no positive desire to be a lawyer. I had
what I think are common prejudices against lawyers and started law
school, to put it bluntly, for lack of something better to do: I was dis-
satisfied with what I was doing after the war (writing advertising). The
G.I. bill was available to me, and other graduate schools which were
suggested repelled rather than attracted me. The first few months of law
school bored me, and I had made up my mind that I would drop out at

midyear. But it developed that I was the highest ranking member of my
class, so I decided to stay through June. It was a vain reason, but [ am
glad I stayed, for a great teacher (Professor William F, Starr) was able
to show me the fires of intellectual excitement that a problem in law can
generate, and for most of my law school thereafter I found the law
challenging.

Nevertheless, I had no intention of ever practising law. I liked law
school, but not the thought of lawyering; and I had no idea what I was
going to do after graduation. I had vague ideas about teaching law, but
the single application [ filed for a teaching fellowship was rejected. Here
chance again intervened. Another law school, to which I had not even
applied, was suddenly faced in mid-summer with the dropout of a teach-
ing fellow. Its dean had heard of me, again through chance, and he
offered me a job. Presto, I was in Palo Alto, California, teaching law at
Stanford.

Two years later (finally) I came to a decision in which I think I exer-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 9'3

cised some “free will.” I was offered a long term teaching appointment,
and I turned it down. It seemed to me even if I were to make teaching
my career, I ought to have some practical experience as a lawver, and
further that if I did not then go into practice, I never would and ft would
always wonder whether I could have practised successfully. Hlence, in
1951 I chucked the teaching profession and went to work for a law firm
in Los Angeles. In 1952 I left the firm and went out on my own, These
decisions, to leave full time teaching and to practise law on my own, |
have never regretted.

I suppose I am a “successful lawyer.” My income in fairly high, TP have
had a hand in some significant cases, my clients are diversified, and some
of them are “important,” in the sense that they are well known. Here
too, I suspect, chance has played a role. When I went into practice, |
aimed for an appellate and research practice. I doubted that 1 would de
well in actual trial litigation and in client relationships, and I preferred
to work for and with other lawyers. 1 quickly participated with some
success in a great number of appeals and special writ proceedings in the
appellate courts, and gradually in trials themselves. In 1959 I tormed a
partnership with another attorney, and in 1961 he left practice for the
groves of Academe. Some of his clients remained, I had meanwhile ob-
tained clients of my own, and lo, I am now a general practinoner, with
telephonitis and pressures. The emphasis of my work, however, is litiga-
tion. I like the contest element of practice, I enjoy the need ta be quick
and articulate in court, I like “standing up to” an opponent or to a judge
in behalf of a client. Further, the law has its ever-present intellectual and
moral problems (e.g., see the articles by Charles P. Curtis, “The Frhics
of Advocacy and Ethics in the Law,” in 4 Stanford Law 3 and 37>. and
the king’s soliloquy in “Hamlet” (HIiii), and it has had for me some tine
emotional rewards. I am sure that other professions have their advan-
tages, but I know no other where intellectual perseverance, agihty and
advocacy have such immediate effect and where at the same time the
show and release of personal aggressions and emotions is socially aceept-
able (indeed, in some instances, necessary, if the lawyer is properly te
serve his client). Further, the lawyers I know are, on the whole, the most
independent of men, possibly because a good practice and reputation en-
able a lawyer to tell anyone, including clients on occasion, to go te
blazes.

So much for the private version of the public life. Now the public
version of the private life.

The statistical facts are above, and they summarize casily: Po have had
over seventeen years of happy marriage; a paticnt wite whom EF hve,
two children whose growth delights me (though | confess Ele not we
them as often as I should); the material necessities, and more, Viv wes ht
has increased, mv hair has decreased, and mv tennis dave are over ifs
other respects, I hope [ am just as active physically as before + BP have
continued law school teaching as a part tine member of he facules at
Loyola Law School in Los Angeles.

I keep on my desk a copy of the California Code of Crd Bee ber
the Complete Works of Shakespeare, the Poon of FoR Cte oe 1}
miscellaneous bricfs | am working on at the moment, DPhes weet ae
consulted in that order almost every day.



914 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

We do a considerable amount of reading and play-going, but I have
had no time for the writing I think I would like to do. We have a wide
circle of friends, but most of you whom I knew at Cambridge are a lon
way from Los Angeles. I regret that the pressures of private careers have
kept us apart. I hope that the Fiftieth Reunion will permit a different
account in this area,

[ have omitted, to this point, comment on political and social affairs,
but I remain convinced that the private life is less fulfilled where the
individual does not participate in some way in the politics of his time. I
regret that my participation has not been as full as it should have been.
The law has pre-empted most of my energies. I contribute to various
“causes” and | do amzcus curiae briefs for such organizations as A.C.L.U.,
but I am not active in politics, I believe our most pressing national prob-
lems are unemployment and civil rights for minorities. On the interna-
tional level our most pressing problem remains the control of atomic
power.

The advent of the atomic age makes me question whether any sufficient
justification for the use of force as an instrument of national policy still

exists. I recall, however, my own emotional commitment to the Second
World War, and the commitment of millions of others, and it makes me
wonder whether “arms control,” “disarmament,” “United Nations” or
what have you can prevent a holocaust. Nevertheless, I remain a “liberal”
and an optimist.

ROBERT SENIOR

   

HOME appRess: 704 Avon Fields Lane, Cincinnati 29, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Empire Products, Inc., 9201 Blue Ash Rd., Cincinnati 42, Ohio.
PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: s.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Marjorie Magnus, Sept. 15, 1949.

OCCUPATION: President, Empire Products, Inc., manufacturers of electrical power
distribution systems.

MEMBER OF: American Welding Society; National Welding Supply Association;
Community Chest; Red Cross, etc.

PATENTS: Holder of several patents on electrical cable connectors and heating
devices.

After graduation I came back to college for one year of postgraduate

916 _ HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

next obtained a position as teacher and house master at St. Mark’s School
in Southboro, Although I was invited to remain I decided I would like
to teach at the college level and left to earn an A.M. in history at Har-
vard. During the two years I was engaged in earning this degree, I was
teaching at Northeastern University. I also prepared myself for the
degree of Ph.D. in government during this period of time. Having had
enough of Boston, I decided to go to the University of Miami in 1946
and try living in a different environment and atmosphere for one year.
I returned to Boston in 1947, got married, obtained my degree and ap-
plied for teaching positions, For reasons too involved to explain, I
eventually returned to Miami in 1949 and have remained there ever since,
never missing a return to visit Cambridge, my home town, every August.
I more than likely will continue these visits in the future.

I was disappointed when I was turned down for service because of a
heart murmur. I have been assured since then by doctors that this did
not mean that I, in fact, had a serious condition. As a matter of fact, I
have been told that I did not have to give up my participation in active
sports, I therefore continue to play tennis and to engage in whatever
activities | may desire. .

I have been residing in the city of Coral Gables during the past ten
years and am very comfortable and happy with my surroundings. I am
fortunate in that J live a five-minute walk to my office on the campus at
the University of Miami. My two children attend the local public
schools and possess, I suppose, about the same amount of virtues and
omissions as the typical American suburban youth, perhaps more of the
virtues, I must add! My wife was also from Cambridge and has adjusted
herself to the south Florida type of life. 1 would imagine that we lead
a less active social life than the average member of my class. Neither of
us seems to require too active a social pace.

I have not been particularly active in civic or fraternal affairs. On the
other hand, I am not averse to socializing and meeting people. I frankly
find it difficult to explain why it is that I have led a relatively quiet
social life. I like to spend Saturday afternoons on Biscayne Bay on my
sailboat, accompanied by one or more of my friends. In connection with
my sailing I am a member of a sailing club whose membership takes its
sailing quite seriously.

I have been teaching government at the university ever since 1946,
with two years out during my return to Cambridge. I have been in-
terested in observing the political scene, in trying to keep up with the
latest thoughts on the subject, and in attempting to relate my interpreta-
tion of this to my students. I have enjoyed teaching very much and can
say that I am glad I selected this vocation. My main regret has been the
low salary scale that existed here during the years I have been here, I
suppose I should have moved into more lucrative campuses but, for what-
ever reasons, | decided to stay on. I would have to conclude that I am
fairly well satisfied with remaining. 1 am by no means limited in my in-
tellectual interest to the field of political science, My interests range from
tennis to Zen Buddhism, from jazz to Movart, etc., etc. I imagine I
could be termed a dilettante —I am interested in many areas but master
of none,

I believe I have successfully made the transition into “middle age” and

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 917

have reconciled myself to so labeling myself even though U don’t fcel it.
I consider one fortunate who is able to do what he would hke to and is
not inhibited by physical or psychic limitations. This I attempt to do as
far as possible.

RICHARD HEWITT SEYMER

  

HOME ADDRESS: 21 Summit Ave., Lynbrook, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: American Can Co., 100 Park Ave.. New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937.
MARRIED: Theodora W. Hodecker, Nov. 4, 1939. cHitpren: Wilham Ernest, Sept.

15, 1947; Carla Ann, Dec. 26, 1950.

occUPATION: Administrative assistant, Plant Training and Safety Industrial Rela.
tions Department, American Can Company, manufacturers of metal, fibre glace
and plastic containers, paper and paper and fibre products and containers.

Not much to report. Have worked for American Can Company in
New York since leaving Harvard in 1937. Service in the Navy from
1943 to 1946, all in Pacific, including Japan (Nagasaki) and China, but
never saw a shot fired in anger.

Attended New York University Business Administration School for
several years after World War I but did not take a degree. Married
since 1939; have lived in East Orange, New Jersey, and currently Evins
brook, Long Island. Active in a mild sort of way in Republican pobows
locally, and in an intense sort of way in Fpiscopalian Church here in
Lynbrook (choir member, ex-vestry member and several commuttees),



1
918 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

    

JULIUS LOUIS SHACK

  
 

HOME AppREss: 26 Barry St. Randolph, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Slater & Goldman, 11 Pemberton 5q., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREES: aR., 1939; Lip. 1942.
wanntep: Rosalind Williams, March 11, 1945. cnizpREN: Judith Barbara, Feb, 3,

1946; Philip Jeffrey, Jan. 15, 1950.
OCCUPATION: Attorney.

Harvard Law School, LL.B., 1942. Served in U.S. Navy, 1942-45, dis-
charged with rank of lieutenant. Married Rosalind Williams of Boston
on March 11, 1945. Commenced practice of law in Boston in 1946 —
continued until present. Two children — Judith Barbara born Febru-

ary 3, 1946, and Philip Jeffrey born January 15, 1950.

STANLEY RANSOM SHAPOFF

LOST, LAST KNOWN ApprEss: 2124 Edgehill Rd, Louisville, Ky.

920 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

fy oR ERE MMM OO IRR AN ORE

SAMUEL PARKMAN SHAW, JR.

     

HOME ADDRESS: 162 E. 93d St., New York, N.Y. 10028.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 425 Park Ave., New York, N.Y. 10022.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEcREES: a.B., 1939; LL.B. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),

MARRIED: Susan J. Lyman, 1939 (divorced 1950); Elizabeth Roberts, 1952.
CHILDREN: Jane S., Aug. 9, 1941; Samuel Parkman, 3d, Jan. 14, 1943; Charles
S., Sept. 6, 1946,

HARVARD SON: Samuel Parkman Shaw, 3d, ’66.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer, partner in Lewis, MacDonald & Varian.

MEMBER OF: Bar associations.

Upon graduation from Harvard I] married and for three years attended
the law school at the University of Pennsylvania, getting my degree in
1942. I then enlisted in the Marine Corps and served about three years
in the infantry, mostly in the Pacific, returning to Boston in 1945. I
worked for two years in a Boston law office and emigrated to New York
City in 1947, where I have since lived and carried on a general law
practice. I was divorced in 1950 and I married again in 1952.

I have a daughter, two sons and two stepdaughters. One of the girls
is a senior at Radcliffe, another attended Radcliffe for three years, and
my elder son is a sophomore at Harvard.

My wife and I have houses in New York City and Millbrook, New
York. My pleasures, other than those relating to my family and my
profession, consist primarily in gardening, working, studying birds and
generally relaxing at our Millbrook place.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT git

IRVING MINOT SHEPARD

   

OFFICE ADDRESS: Shepard & Morse Lumber Co., Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Severn School, Severna Park, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: S.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Frances E. Burge, May 28, 1949. CHILDREN: Irving Minot, 34, Aug. 1a,
1950; Dwight Burge, Oct. 14, 1952; Ruth Appleton, April 10. 1461,

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, wholesale lumber company, also secretary and a director:
treasurer, secretary, director, Shepard Steamship Company, a whollyownrd

subsidiary.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, member of executive committee, Meadowbrook Schoul of
Weston; director, Intercoastal Lumber Distributors Association,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

There is not too much new to report since our 20th. The mayor event
was the birth of our only daughter who being cleven and mine years
younger than her respected brothers is a constant source of delight te
all of us.

We find that the new systems of teaching (math in particular) meane
that today’s parents have to practically re-educate themselves in ordee
to understand what their children are being taught. It makes us thankful
that we went to college when we did and don’t have to try tea get ac-
cepted to one of the better colleges today.

Life goes on much the same with its quota of heartaches as weil as
pleasures and somehow we manage to keep a reasonably even keel an
spite of them.

As treasurer of a family business which is now being conducted by
members of my generation, I find that I must keep my nose preety eke
to the grindstone. We are in a highly compentive, low smargin indosery
which does not allow much room for crror. te otfers 3 great ahalleo vs
‘ but the rewards are not as great as in some manutacturing of oer
industries. Wholesaling is at present in a squeeze berw cen the moans
facturer on the one hand and the retailer on the other. Milaay of esos
have tried to go directly to the other without the services ad the wh...
saler but have found that they are presented with many predic ga ws
doing which they are not as well equipped to handle avian the wh... :
So wholesaling is not about to give up the ghost.

As we grow older we come to realize that if there were nec .
we would not have much use for our talenty such as thes a: . a fos

g22 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

derive a certain satisfaction in being able to solve some of these prob.
lems. This applies both to the business world and to our family lives,
and is I suppose what the wise men say makes character.

Best wishes to all classmates and am looking forward with keen
anticipation to June.

DONALD ALLAN SHEPHERD t+

 
 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 32 Virginia Rd., Needham Heights 94, Mass.

WILLARD PERKINS SHEPPARD, JR.

 

v ae

  

 

 

 

EIA LENE AO

HOME appress: 987 N. Reading Rd., Birmingham, Mich. 48008. .
OFFICE ADDRESS: Monsanto Chemical Co., 500 Northland Towers, Detroit, Mich.
48235.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936, 1937-1940. DECREE: s.B., 1939(40).

MARRIED: Mary Forbes Philbrook, Feb. 28, 1942. cumoren: Harriet Philbrook,
July 17, 1948; Elizabeth Weare, Oct. 18, 1945; Jane Whiting, Sept. 20, 1952.

occupation: Chemical; district sales manager, Inorganic Chemicals Division,
Monsanto Chemical Company.

orrices HELD: Director, Sales/Marketing Executives of Detroit, Inc., 1963-64;
president, Bloomfield Hills High School P.T.A., 1962-63.

MEMBER OF: Oakland Hills Country Club; Delta Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Harvard
Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Pi Eta Club; Sales/Marketing Executives of Detroit,
Inc.; Greater Detroit Board of Commerce; Chemical & Allied Industries

OO

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT O23

Association; Firefighters Square Club of Massachusetts; Bloomfield Hills
Dads’ Club; Detroit Paint, Varnish & Lacquer Association.

With one daughter in the exciting and bewildering throes of being
a freshman at the University of Michigan, I find myself reliving many of
my Own experiences twenty-five years ago. Much has happened and |
find myself a middle-aged sales executive with a wife and three daugh-
ters who make me feel young and happy —and a position that I find
rewarding and interesting.

After the usual greetings from Uncle Sam and twenty-six months in
the Field Artillery (winding up as captain and battery commander), |
was released because of a shoulder which wouldn’t work to suit the
Army. How I thank the lucky stars that | took ROTC at Harvard
which gave me a little background for the military. Having a wife and
one child, I decided I needed to think about a career a little more seri-
ously, so I went with Monsanto Chemical Company. At the time of our
Twentieth Anniversary Report, I had just been made district sales man-

ager in Detroit which I still am. Since we had moved several times to
various parts of the U.S., it has been a pleasure to get our roots in one
spot again.

Our eldest daughter, Hatsy, has cerebral palsy but has contributed
much to all of us as a family. Betsy has added a lot of spice with her
teen-age years and all that goes with that stage. Janey, the voungest, is
a charmer. With three different age groups and lev els, Molly and I
have found the stimulus that makes us happy about the furure — in spite
of a Democratic president.

Golf is my newest hobby but I have been a volunteer fireman for
much, much longer. Through the children, I find that I'm taking a
much more active part in our church and I’ve finished a year as pres
dent of the Bloomfield Hills School P.T.O.

Many times it has occurred to me how much I absorbed at Elarvard,
although at the time I wasn’t aware. of it. Perhaps it’s this populanon
explosion that the Class of ’39 helped to produce that has made tue
realize how lucky we were to get the college of our choice.

My family and I are looking forward to the Twenty-tifth Reunion
and seeing old friends again. I remember Dad's Twenty-fifth visully

(1934) and I know that although Pm the “old grad” now, it will be
just as stimulating.

tw

924 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

PHILIP HENRY SHERIDAN

    
 

BoRN: Aug. 1], 1916, Washington, D.C, parents: Philip Henry Sheridan, Isobel
McGunnegle.

PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939.

piep: March 11, 1948, San Francisco, Calif.

Philip Henry Sheridan spent three and one-half years with our Class.
He was engaged in the oil business. He was survived by his mother.

PHILIP EDWIN SHICK

  

HOME appress: 3047 Carskaddon Ave., Toledo 6, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Owens-Illinois, Toledo, Ohio,

PREPARED AT: Van Wert High School, Van Wert, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: $.B., cum laude, 1939; s.m. (Lawrence
Coll.), 1941; pH. (ibid.), 1943.

MARRIED: Ruth Margaret Hrabko, May 8, 1948 (divorced 1957); Margaret Jean
Goede, Aug, 23, 1963.

OCCUPATION: Acting director of research and planning, Forest Products Division,
Owens-Illinois, manufacturers of paperboard, corrugated and solid fiber con-
tainers, multiwall and shipping sacks and fiber cans,

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of committee for APPA-TAPPI graduate seminar program,
1962-63

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Toledo; Association of Harvard Chemists; American
Chemical Society; Technical Association of the Pulp and Paper Industry;

\

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 925

Biological and Chemical Research Committee of National Paper Board
Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Mead Recovery Process,” a technical paper describing a
process for recovering neutral sulfite pulping chemicals. Patents on chemical
recovery and paper coating.

At Harvard and afterwards I have concentrated on the immediate
and practical goals of the moment, putting aside thoughts of long-range
personal objectives and satisfactions. Thus, when I entered college, I
had hoped to become independent and perhaps wealthy through discov-
eries in the field of chemical synthesis. However, such dreams were
quickly submerged in the more prosaic requirements of formal courses.
It is only in recent years that I have begun to re-examine and reconsider
my aspirations and to review my progress.

Upon graduation as a chemist from Harvard, I chose an industry
when I accepted a scholarship for graduate study at the Institute of
Paper Chemistry, affiliated with Lawrence College in Appleton, Wiscon-
sin. As my first industrial job, I investigated cooking control methods
in a sulfite pulp mill in Appleton during the summer of 1940. It hardly
seemed right to accept pay for doing something so interesting.

While evaluating the possibilities of by-product recovery for a kraft
mill in Monroe, Louisiana, during the summer of 1941, I received a first
hand introduction to the segregation question. Of course, the war in
Europe was of more interest at that time; and I opposed our involvement.

When we did enter the war, after much advice and soul searching, |
elected to seek deferment to continue my graduate work and for em-
ployment in an essential industry. It has seemed many times since that
neither the graduate work nor the subsequent employment were that
important to the country or to me. From a personal point of view, the
war years were empty.

Upon completion of graduate work in 1943, I joined Masonite Cor-
poration in Laurel, Mississippi, as a research chemist. I studied extrac-
tives and other components of Masonite hardboards as a part of a
program to improve their physical properties and in a search for by-
products. Although Masonite won an “E” for its production of diestock,
used in the manufacture of aircraft and electrical panel board, 1 did not
find the laboratory bench work sufficiently rewarding and was de-

termined to leave.

I next worked as a group leader in pulp, paper and piyments re-
search for two years with West Virginia Pulp and Paper Company at
Covington, Virginia; after which, I joined the research departinent of
the Mead Corporation at Chillicothe, Ohio. I had finally paid my school
debts and bought my first car —at postwar prices, |

My eight years at Chillicothe were filled with rewarding work in all
aspects of papermaking, including the development of the Mead chem:
cal recovery system. This work led to a business trip to Paris and cre
French Alps with a vacation in Spain and Italy, While in Europe |
learned to like wine and to savor life just a little bit more.

Tr was in Chillicothe that I was married for the firse time — a marnre
which was to end in divorce nine years later. Tt was there that [test
had my own dog, and there that [TE built a house.

In 1956 I joined National Container Corporation in Jacks ie.

926 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Florida, as director of research. Following the merger of National Con-
tainer and Owen-lllinois Glass Company that same year, I served as
technical director of the Mill Division, technical director of the Forest
Products Division, and am now acting director of research and engi-
neering for the Forest Products Division of Owens-Illinois. I moved to
Toledo, Ohio, in 1957.

On August 23d of this year (1963) I was married for the second time,
Only now do I realize how much love and care I have missed in the
years before. Margaret and I are still furnishing our first apartment and
making plans for the future.

I entered Harvard as a liberal and came out as an economic and
political conservative. I believe that this country and the world need
champions for the basic concepts of the free market and the importance
of individual initiative. I would like to see a true conservative nominated
and elected to the presidency. In contrast to many conservatives, how-
ever, I cannot accept the doctrine of organized religions, nor am I yet
able to feel the need of a personal god for guidance or as an explanation
for the order of the universe. | am satisfied that it is here and that we
had best study it and adapt ourselves to it. In the same sense, I believe
that men should work together for their common good and that the

teachings of Christ are a good guide for individual action to achieve
such cooperation.

rat

merge

HARRY MANUEL SHOOSHAN, JR.

        

ie apeameancomtenteg RPT

HOME ApDRESS: 6310 Huntover Lane, Rockville, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Agency for International Development, Dept. of State, Washing-
ton 25, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Harriet Emma Gregg, May 2, 1942. cuitpren: Harry Manuel, 3d, Nov.
7, 1945; Deborah G., April 30, 1949; John G., Oct. 24, 1951.
occupation: U.S, Government — Foreign Assistance Program.

The twenty-five years since I left college have been good years. Gov-
ernment service has been just as satisfying as | had hoped. Marriage and
my three children have given me satistactions beyond my hopes.

On leaving college I participated simultaneously in two internship pro-
grams in the U.S. Government. In the year involved I had a wide

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 927

variety of experiences in various parts of the country. The opportunities
which this experience seemed to open up, the gathering war clouds and
serious attachment to the girl who was later to become my wife caused
me to shelve plans to go to law school. Much as I should like to have
had legal training, I have never regretted the alternative paths I have
followed.

The war years were spent in the Navy — ensign to lieutenant. The
bulk of the three-plus years of active duty were spent in military gov-
ernment in various assignments overseas and in the United States. I was
lucky in that I can look back on experiences which I shall never regret.

The postwar years have me settled down to the more serious period
of my life in pursuing my career in the public and raising a family. At
this point we are in a home which we built about five years ago; our
children are getting to the more critical years of trying to plan on college;
my career is being pursued at a pretty senior level and my wife and I
are hoping we can hold out in the face of all of the resulting responsi-
bilities. As a consequence, work, family and hobbies are all mixed up,
work is our hobby; hobbies are work; our family is our hobby; our hob-
by is our family; our family is WORK! But we have no complaint. In
fact we look forward to the future and the new opportunities it holds.
May the future be no less dynamic than the past!

THOMAS GLEASON SHORTALL

 

BorN: Aug. 31, 1918, Brockton, Mass. pareNTs: Thomas Francis Shortall, Margarct
McCarthy.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936, 1937-1938, 1939-1940.

MARRIED: Kathleen Deady.

pieD: April 11, 1963, New York, N.Y.

wipow: Mrs. Thomas G. Shortall, 444 E. 66th St., New York 21, N.Y.

Thomas Gleason Shortall spent two years with our Class. He had not
been heard from since the time of our Tenth Annivers: ary Report when
he wrote that he was associated with Appleton & Cox, Inc. an Inland

Marine Insurance Company in New York City.

Hie was survived by
his wife.

92 8 HARVARD CLASS OF 1 939

BERNARD JOSEPH SIEGEL

m7. : SM

 

HOME ApDRESS: 259 Marvin Ave., Los Altos, Calif.

oFFice appRrESS: Dept. of Anthropology, Stanford University, Stanford, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Superior Central High School, Superior, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.p. (Univ.
of Chicago), 1941; PH.b. (ibid.), 1943.

marrieD: Charlotte Brest, 1942. CHILDREN: Eve Linda, Oct. 19, 1948; Paul Jeffrey,
Feb. 8, 1951.

occupation: Professor of anthropology, Stanford University.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Brooklyn College; research associate, Institute of Hu-
man Relations, Yale University; assistant professor, University of Wyoming;
assistant professor, associate professor and professor of anthropology, execu-
tive head of department, Stanford University, since 1947; president, Western
Branch, American Anthropological Association.

MEMBER OF: American Anthropological Association; American Ethnological So-
ciety; Sigma Xi; American Association for the Advancement of Science;
American Civil Liberties Union; Faculty Club at Stanford; American Associa-
tion of University Professors.

pustications: “Slavery During the Third Dynasty of Ur: An Anthropological
Analysis,” monograph; a number of publications in scholarly journals.

After graduation from Harvard I went to the University of Chicago
to study for a doctorate in anthropology. During the war I found my-
self working under the Coordinator of Latin American Affairs — for
Nelson Rockefeller, of all things! At Yale, of all things! Picked up my
career in 1945 as an instructor at Brooklyn College and eventually landed
at Stanford University where I have been since 1947, at present profes-
sor of anthropology and chairman of the department.

At Chicago I had the good fortune to meet Charlotte Brest, by Boston
out of Smith, then beginning graduate work in social work. We married
shortly after the onset of American involvement in the war, and had two
children — daughter and son—who have consistently amazed and de-
lighted us for the past fifteen and twelve and a half years, respectively.
In the course of ethnological field research 1 have spent a year in Brazil,
in Portugal and in Japan, as well as many seasons among the eastern
pueblos and Spanish-American villages of New Mexico. Besides the
work itself these have been to us priceless family experiences.

It has been exciting to be at Stanford during the past fifteen years or
so, and to have had a gratifying part to play in its rather phenomenal de-
velopment. We have also watched the surrounding countryside change

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 929

from a predominantly rural to a metropolitan area, but have been only
mildly active within the Democratic Party on complex local and state
political issues. For a liberal with strong humanist convictions, I am not
proud of this rather small participation in community and _ political
affairs. Somehow involvement in academic matters — teaching, writing,
research, administration and consulting — has been almost total. I have
continued an early zealous interest in music, playing the piano and sing-
ing in a small choral group, but other than that have no active hobbies.
If anything I should say my hobby is travel and new experience, but
then that is also my business. Anthropology as a way of life has suited

me well, and I am grateful for the introduction during my formative
years at Harvard.

RICHARD SIEGEL

       

HOME ApbprEss: Bldg. 3C, Apt. 13a, 163-39 130th Ave., Rochdale Village, Jamaica,
N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: English Dept., Jamaica High School, Jamaica, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Milford High School, Milford, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1942.

MARRIED: Pauline Hilda Tobias, April 30, 1948. cHmLpREN: Robert Milton, June
25, 1953; Peter Richard, May 20, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Teacher of English, Jamaica High School.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive board, United Federation of Teachers, 1960-61.
MEMBER OF: United Federation of Teachers, AFL-CIO,

After graduation I entered the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences,
taught school, held odd jobs, and received my A.M. in 1942. That
September I was drafted into the Air Corps. I spent three vears as a
Link Trainer-Celestial Navigation Instructor at Mather Field (Sacra-
mento) and Ellington Field (Houston). In June, 1944, I was sent to
Panama to help write the official history of the Sixth Air Force. 1
became the acting chief editor with a considerable statf. We took our
assignment seriously and soon had to face a truly dismaying fact — thar
Pearl Harbor was no mere isolated mischance, that it is sheer folly for
any nation to entrust its defense to a bureaucracy, least of all, a military
bureaucracy.

Twenty subsequent years of observation and reflection have but
deepened this awareness that the greatest danger to modern man — no

930 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

matter what the isvz under which he lives — is the mindless “efficiency”
of his own country’s bureaucrats in or out of uniform. Eichmann serves
only too well as the exemplar.

I was honorably discharged from the Air Force in February, 1946.
I settled in New York City and tried my hand at radio script writing,
That June I became a copywriter at Denhard, Pfeiffer & Wells, Inc., an
agency serving many publishing houses. [I also began a psychoanalysis
with Dr. Ralph S, Banay, a truly outstanding practitioner. Under
Dr. Banay’s guidance during the next two years, I gained enough
understanding of my motivations and enough maturation of my emotions
to enable me to know more of what I wanted to do with my life.

In 1947 1 finally met the right girl, We actually fell in love at first
sight, and despite many difficult periods it has been that way ever since
between Bobbe and me. As the analysis waned our courtship flourished
— which is as it should be—and we were married on April 30, 1948.
We lived in Greenwich Village, made many acquaintances, and won a
few lifetime friends.

In September, 1949, I began study at Columbia for a Ph.D. under the
G, I, Bill. 1 worked part-time at Columbia University Press, but Bobbe
really supported us with her writings as a fashion coordinator, That
year I completed the residence requirements. In August, 1950, Bobbe
and I sailed to Europe for a year of study and travel under the auspices
of Columbia University. During that glorious year in Europe we spent
early autumn in Paris, toured south in a war-surplus jeep, wintered on
the Riviera, toured Italy in the spring, were back in Paris in May, and
sailed home in August—all on our G.I allotment. We planned to go
back to see everything we had missed, once I had my Ph.D.

What actually happened was even more wonderful — two baby boys
in less than a year, Robert (June 25, 1953) and Peter (May 20, 1954).
Suddenly Bobbe was a full-time mother with a baby on each arm,
and I had to be a full-time father. After a couple of false starts, I began
teaching English in a New York City high school in February, 1955.

Now, as I enter my tenth year of teaching, I gladly teach my pupils
and colleagues alike. I am proud to be a militant leader in the United
Federation of Teachers, the first organization with a real chance to
revolutionize the role of teachers—and of education itself —im our
country. May it come soon that our teachers take their proper place
in the forefront of our advancing society. What better career can
there be for an educated man with such a goal at last in sight!

Meanwhile, life has given us shocks too. Both my parents and a
brother have died. Suddenly I am the eldest. Bobbe has lost her
mother, but her father is well and always close to us. Bobbe herself
has undergone most serious surgery twice in the last two years, yet each
time has bounced indomitably back to her place at the very heart of
our home.

Here, midstream in life, we embark anew. In a few weeks we shall
move into our permanent home in Rochdale Village, Queens. I have
recently become vice-president of Mount Ascutney Alpine Homes, Inc.,
of Windsor, Vermont. At our Yodel Valley site, three miles from the
booming Mount Ascutney ski area, we have already erected three of
twenty quality, year-round homes for skiers and their families. Our

Cs

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 931

first dividends will be earmarked as Harvard tuition money for Robert
and Peter when their turn comes,

Bobbe and I are looking ahead to the day we can give up all the extra
jobs we still have to do to supplement my inadequate salary. Then, each

of us hopes to be free for the many projects, including some writing,
that are still only dreams.

M

URRAY LAWRENCE SILBERSTEIN

      

HOME ADDRESS: 6 West Way, White Plains, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 5 Hanover Sq., New York 4, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Cheshire Academy, Cheshire, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREE: A.B., curn laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Ellin Roudin, Oct. 6, 1949. CHILDREN: James David, Feb. 2, 1952;
Barbara Anne, June 24, 1954; John Joseph, Oct. 10, 1960.

occuPATION: Partner, Oppenheimer & Company; in charge of research: firm en-

gaged in brokerage and banking business and in addition runs the Oppen-
heimer Fund.

OFFICES HELD: Regional (midwest) field secretary, American Veterans Committee,
1946; member of board, Americans United for World Government, 1947;
member, New York State Board, United World Federalists, 1948-50; president,
Joselli, Inc., 1947-58; partner, Ralph E. Samuel & Company, 1960-63.

MEMBER OF: Sunningdale Country Club, Scarsdale, N.¥.; Harvard Club of New
York. .

One wife, three children and twenty-five years after graduation, I
retain a small amount of hair and a larger, I hope, quotient of humor.
During this period, | spent one year at graduate school, two years at
Macy’s, three years as a partner at one brokerage firm, four years in the
Navy and probably five years (all told) vacationing. I am currently
a partner in the brokerage firm of Oppenheimer & Company, in charge
of institutional research.

During the twenty-five-year period, I have retained some of my
prejudices, shed a few and acquired some new ones. For exaniple: Pam
still prejudiced in favor of good-looking women, though | am sympa-
thetic to Rex Harrison’s plaintive plea in “My Fair Lady.” FE sill hke
good whiskey, good books, good weather and Fair Harvard. Lai afraid,
however, that I no longer believe that all the good guys are on our sie.
(U.S, versus Russia, Democrats versus Republicans, ete.) Nor do Tt
believe (as I was once wont to do) that there are panaccas which can

932 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

save the world. Once an ardent World Federalist, I would now settle
gladly for Atlantic union.

Above all else, I have developed a great respect for the pros: John
Kennedy, Lyndon Johnson, Charles de Gaulle, N. Khrushchev and
Arnold Palmer, I'd like to regard myself as one in my field.

PHILIP ABRAHAM SILVERBERG

ak P

bade a
ee

   
  

asked he naan mali hb

1° j :
\— q %
~~ :

\ tld

HOME apbprEss: 5333 De Loache, Dallas, Texas.

OFFICE appress: Eldridge, Goggans, Davidson & Silverberg, First National Bank
Bldg., Dallas, Texas.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Sioux City, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecREES: s.B., 1939; LL.B. (Southern Methodist
Univ.), 1942,

MARRIED: Mildred Bracker, Sept. 14, 1941. cuttp: Cathey Bracker, July 30, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Attorney; partner in law firm.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Columbian Club of Dallas, 1963; president, Temple
Emanu-E}, 1963.

MEMBER OF: American, Texas and Dallas Bar Associations.

 

ALLEN SINNOTT

  

HOME AbpRESS: 32 Merritt Drive, Lawrence Township, Trenton
orice appress: U.S. Geological Survey, P.O, Box 1238, Trenton N 108607
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass, PE ONE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 933

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1940, DEGREES: A.B., 1939(40) ; a.m. (Stanford Univ.), 1942,
MARRIED: Gertrude Lillibridge Mann, Jan. 6, 1942. CHILDREN: Roger Wilkins, Der.

23, 1944; Warren Mann, Sept. 27, 1948; Elizabeth Vinal, Aug. 4, L954,
HARVARD SON: Roger Wilkins Sinnott, ’66.

OCCUPATION: Geologist; district geologist, U.S. Geological Survey; administration
and research in geology and hydrogeology.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Section of Geology, Virginia Academy of Science, 1951;
chairman, Teller’s Committee, Geochemical Society, 1957.

MEMBER OF: Geological Society of America; American Association of Petroleum
Geologists; American Geophysical Union; Geochemical Seciety: American
Association for the Advancement of Science; Virginia Academy of Science;
Geological Society of Washington; Philadelphia Geological Society; Sigma Xs.

PUBLICATIONS: Several short articles in technical journals and several reports pub.
lished by federal and state government agencies, all relating to geology oar
hydrogeology.

After graduate work at Stanford University I joined the staff of rhe
U.S. Geological Survey in Long Beach, California, where I worked on
two major ground-water investigations in the Los Angeles coastal plain.

In September, 1947, I was transferred to Virginia to take charge of a
small field office in Charlottesville in a program of ground-water investi-
gations in cooperation with the Virginia Geological Survey. While we
were in Virginia, I made two short trips to Labrador and Newfound-
land, in 1953, on temporary duty with the Corps of Engineers, to help
locate ground-water supplies for remote installations operated by the
U.S. Air Force.

In March, 1957, we moved to a suburban development in New Jersey
near Lawrenceville on the occasion of my transfer to the Trenton office
of the Survey to take charge of a much larger program of state-wide
ground-water investigations. Our family life centers more or less around
the Princeton community, where we enjoy most of the advantages of
a university town.

JOHN SINNOTT, JR.
me eee =— EERIE TE ER “— ¥

    

1

=

oe” an }

HOME ADDRESS: 96 West River Rd., Rumson, N_J.

OFFICE appREsSs: 15] E. Front St.. Red Rank, NJ.

PREPARED AT: Cate School, Carpinteria, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECHEES: $.8., 1989; stp, CLs. of Penacseieaniad.
1943.

MARRIED: Marjorie V. White, Sept. 12, 1922. cotoars: Joho, bE New oo bead.

woe

934 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Patricia Luce, March 30, 1948; Robert Vose, May 7, 1949; Jean Stewart,
April 24, 1952.

HARVARD SON: John Sinnott, 3d, ’66.

occupation; General surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Attending surgeon, member, executive committee, Riverview Hos-
pital Red Bank, N.J.; associate attending surgeon, Monmouth Medical Center,

mg Branch, N.J.; president, Board of Health, Rumson, N.J.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Monmouth County Medical Associa-

tion; Rumson Country Club; Sea Bright Beach Club; Harvard Club of

Philadelphia.

After graduating from Harvard in 1939 I attended the University of
Pennsylvania Medical School and received my M.D. degree in 1943. I
was married in September, 1942, to Marjorie V. White of Philadelphia.
From 1943 through 1945, | served as intern and resident at Pennsylvania
Hospital in Philadelphia, Two years of military service were put in at
the 342d Station Hospital in Korea, where [ was chief of urological
surgery, | was discharged with the rank of captain and settled in Rum-
son, New Jersey. From 1947 through 1950, I received further surgical
training at Monmouth Medical Center, the Hospital for Special Surgery,
New York City, and at the graduate school at the N.Y.U. — Bellevue
Medical School. Since 1950 | have been practising general surgery in the
Red Bank, New Jersey, area.

During this period my four children have been growing up. My son,
John, is at Harvard, my daughter, Patricia, is at Miss Porter’s School,
Farmington, Connecticut; my son, Robert, is at Choate, Wallingford,
Connecticut, and my youngest daughter, Jean, who is eleven, is at Rum-
son Country Day School. 1 live in the Borough of Rumson, New Jersey,
on the North Shrewsbury River and am within ten minutes’ drive of my
office and both hospitals where I practise. I have taken an interest in
youth development and was president of our local Little League organiza-
tion. [brought up my children in an area where outdoor sports have been
important. All four of my children are involved in competitive swim-
ming and have several State Junior Olympic medals to show for it. In
addition to swimming, John played freshman football at Harvard. Both
my wife and | are eager golfers when the opportunity presents itself.

Professionally, | have conducted a suburban practice of general surgery
with some success and I am presently involved in positions of some re-
sponsibility both professionally and administratively in the hospitals with
which I am associated.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARCUS LOCKHART SKARSTEDT +

  

arESS: 5093 Van Alden, Tarzana, Calif.

HARRY BURTON SKIDMORE t¢

+ sarap Rte Pn par 8 wigetmctnn

 

2ESS: 1175 Boylston St., Boston, Mass. 02115.

BARKER HIPPEE SLADE +

   

Q ‘
Rec: .
A '
2

=ss: 2666 Tigertail Ave., Coconut Grove, Miami, Fla.

936 HARVARD CLASS OF 19 39

CHALONER BERRY SLADE

 

HOME appress: South Bolton Road, Bolton, Mass.

OFFICE ADURESS: Lincoln Laboratory, Massachusetts Inst. of Technology, Lexing-
ton, Mass.

prepareD At: Glen Ridge High School, Glen Ridge, NJ.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; a.m. (Columbia
Univ.), 1941; pu.p. (Harvard Univ.), 1950.

marrieD: Charlotte Clark, June 23, 1939. cuttpren: Christopher Seth, March 3,
1944; Paul Harold, Dec. 5, 1950; Mark Edward, May 9, 1954.

occupaTION: Research.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Institute of Electrical and Electronics
Engineers; Sigma Xi.

Surely this is the most revolutionary age the world has yet seen. To
the extent that we can stomach change, we are fortunate to be alive to-
day.

To be able to live in this great country, to contribute just a little to
mankind’s new knowledge and, above all, to be aware of what is happen-
ing are unusual blessings. To these I can add a good wife, fine children
and health all ’round, and it leaves me feeling humble and very grateful
indeed.

Sometimes it seems as if men were better matched to their environ-
ment in Colonial days than now. Be that as it may, I wouldn’t want to
miss the present show.

When I was in college, I hoped that when I died the world would be
no worse for my having lived in it. That still seems a good, if modest,
goal.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

      

WILLIA

M HOBBS SLEEPER, JR.

  

HOME ADDRESS: 824 S.W. Channon Drive, Seattle, Wash. 98166.
OFFICE ADDRESS: The Boeing Co., Seattle, Wash.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: S.B., 1939.

William Hobbs, 3d, Sept. 18, 1952.

marrtep: Norma J. Pribyl, March 3, 1945. CHILDREN: Barbara L., March 22, 1950;

occuPATION: Research and development; engineering supervisor. systems engineer.

ing — Orbital Space Station.

MEMBER OF: AOA; RESA; IEEE (senior member) ; AIAA (associate fellow),
PUBLICATIONS: F6F Drone Controller.

Before donning a Navy uniform, I worked on flow controllers at
Foxboro, blind landing test equipment at Sperry, and rocket motors at
Cal. Tech. The latter Institute, being a place of learning. perfected good

safety measures after only two fatalities.

Next, as a shiny-buttoned, U.S. Navy Reserve ensign, I taught elce-
tronics at the Postgraduate School, Annapolis, Then, atter radar traiming
at Bowdoin, M.LT., and B.T.L., I served on the heavy cruiser, USS
Quincy, as radar maintenance officer, First trip was with Roosevelt to
Malta with a side visit to Cairo. The President appeared quite haggard
on the return trip and died shortly after.

Following a twenty-hour leave to get married, it was off to the Pacitic
Fleet for nearly a year. We escorted the carriers, shelled Japan. ran
into the center of a typhoon by mistake, and finally went ashore to blow
up bombs, artillery and suicide subs. Returned to the States wath ny
lieutenant stripes properly salt-encrusted, but still not able te hobl
anything down, not even seasick pills.

Set to work at Eclipse-Pioneer modifying the P-1 autopilot for Fok
drone control. Am happy to report there were no crashes during the
flight tests at Johnsville, Pennsylvania. Then it was te VEE TD. te couple
their new radar seeker to the controls of a test plane. ‘Uhis was for the
Project Meteor, air-to-air missile. The test plane homed on the caret
plane quite smoothly at Chincoteague, Virginia, bue [owas usually ate
sick before we left the runway, Then worked in Dr. Draper's iibors.
tory on Birdbrain 1, the missile launching computer, and nnolly beth toe
General Electric at Syracuse, just before Project Meteor was cami

At G.E. the area of activity was in radar dean, FE was pesere

93°

93 8 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

engineer on the AN/TPQ-r10, a close-support bombing radar with a
computer to direct a plane and trip its bombs from the ground. I also
headed up the design of the Mod. I and the Mod. III pulse radars for
guidance of the Atlas ICBM. This was the beginning of the big-system,
concurrent-development era. One of the Mod. III’s is still in use at Cape
Kennedy for guidance of various space launches.

After a temporary assignment to Boeing as G.E, radio guidance repre-
sentative on the Dyna-Soar program, I returned to Syracuse as supervisor
of a group engaged in the development and sale of advanced radio
guidance systems, One slight problem was that everyone wanted to
use inertial guidance. So I headed back to Boeing to work on the Dyna-
Soar program, thinking that a space glider was the only logical answer
for atmospheric re-entry. The recent cancellation of the program
would indicate otherwise.

Worked on Dyna-Soar as supervisor of a unit designing some of the
avionic hardware and selecting launch and landing radio guidance
equipment. The next assignment at Boeing was to head up a larger
unit coordinating the design of the Minuteman group equipment. Cur-
rent activity is in the new business area, system engineering for orbiting
space stations. Worked on the Lunar Excursion Module proposal and
the Manned Orbital Research Laboratory competitive study.

As for family activities, all four of us ski; Norma, young Bill and
Barbara belong to various orchestras; and then there is a horse that
lets no one ride except Barbara. We all took time out to visit the
Hawaiian Islands this year and toured California last year. Here in
Seattle, we enjoy the rugged terrain and all the growing things, but
there still is the tug of the summer lightning, the fall colors, and the
whispering snow of New England.

THADDEUS JOSEPH SLOMKOWSKI +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 67 Coddington St. Quincy 69, Mass,

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 939

ALECK LEWIS SMITH

 

LOST. LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: Dept. of English, Benedict College, Columbia, S.C.

BENJAMIN ATWOOD SMITH

I

     

HOME ADpDRESS: 54 Leonard St., Gloucester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Merchant Box Co., Gloucester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Governor Dummer Academy, South Byfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: S.B., 1939; Lup. (New Bedford Inst. of
Technology), 1961.

MARRIED: Barbara Mechem, Feb. 3, 1940. cHrLpreN: R. Russell, 2d. Nov. 28, 1910;
Barbara, Aug. 11, 1942; Susan O’Brien, Jan. 24, 1944; Benjamin Atwood, dl.
Jan. 22, 1946; Cathleen, May 11, 1954.

OCCUPATION: President, Gloucester By-Products, Inc. (fish meal and fich oil manu:
facturers), Merchant Box Company (wooden box manufacturers),

OFFICES HELD: U.S. Senator from Massachusetts, 1960-62: mayor. City of Gloucce-
ter, 1954-55; member, Gloucester School Committee, 1952-53, Gloucestct
City Council, 1956-57; Ambassador, of the U.S. Delegation to the Mecting of
the Parties to the International Convention for the High Seas Fisheries of
the North Pacific Ocean, 1963.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Annisquam Yacht Club.

The twenty-five years since graduation in 1939 have pased by all
too quickly, but in that short time what great changes have taken plaice
in our country and throughout the world. From a country thar on
1939 was separated from the rest of the world by two great oceans we

940 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

have now become the focal point of this extremely small world. What
happens in the United States today is known the world over in a matter
of minutes and affects the lives of people of many nations. We of the
Class of 1939 were certainly thrust into the very thick of this changing
order. My own personal life, like the rest, has been influenced by this
change.

] was married to Barbara Mechem at Lake Forest, Illinois, in 1940 and
returned to my family business in Gloucester where we have raised a
wonderful family of three daughters and two sons.

The great war that we could see approaching during our college
days finally enveloped our own country; and along with so many others,
I served for four and one-half years in the U.S. Navy as a heutenant. I
served on three different submarine net layers, serving as skipper of
both the USS Palm and the USS Viburnum.

After war I continued in the family business and with the important
and pleasant raising of a family that enjoys sailing, tennis, swimming,
football, hockey — all kinds of outdoor sports that keep us from getting
old too quickly and which help develop character, poise and confidence
in our youth,

It was after the war that I became actively interested in politics and
was elected to the School Committee, City Council and mayor by the
people of Gloucester. After serving as mayor I became increasingly
interested and active in state and national affairs. During the 1960
Presidential campaign 1 worked through the primaries and the general
election for the election of John F. Kennedy to the Presidency of the
United States.

In December, 1960, Governor Foster Furcolo of Massachusetts ap-
pointed me to the U.S. Senate to fill the vacancy left by the resignation
of John F. Kennedy on his election to the Presidency. The two years
that I spent in serving the Commonwealth of Massachusetts and the
nation were the most interesting and eventful years of my life. 1 was
happy to be on the scene and actively to support the great program
of our new administration.

In June, 1963, President John F. Kennedy appointed me chairman,
with the personal rank of ambassador, of the U.S. delegation to the
Meeting of the Parties to the International Convention for the High
Seas Fisheries of the North Pacific Ocean. The purpose of this conven-
tion is to negotiate a fishing treaty in the North Pacific between the
United States, Japan and Canada. These negotiations are progressing.

I feel that this country is now beginning to realize its responsibilities
both at home and abroad —that the soft postwar years are over and
that we can look to the future with confidence in the realization that
our goal for a better life for every individual is the responsibility of all.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 94!

CONVERSE OWEN SMITH

 

HOME ADpREss: 37 W. Irving St., Chevy Chase, Md. 20015.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Office of International Affairs, 2E727, Pentagon, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: S.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Joan M. Perry, May 3, 1952. cHILDREN: Nicholas Owen, March 20, 1953;
Samuel Watson, July 23, 1954; Peter Baldwin, Nov. 22, 1955; Benjamin
Ward, April 14, 1958; Susan Starr, Nov. 21, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Special assistant, Office of the Undersecretary of the Army.

OFFICES HELD: President, OM Publishing Corporation, Camden, Maine, 1960-63;
member, board of directors, Panama Canal Company, Balboa, C.Z., 1961-63,
chairman of board, Northeastern Research Foundation, Brunswick, Maine,
1961-62; member, Advisory Council, Maine Dept. of Economic Development,
1958-62; member, Camden Budget Committee, 1960-62: chairman, Knox
County Democratic Committee, 1957-61; member, Maine Democratic Platform
Committee, 1958, 1960; president, Journal Publishing Company, Belfast.
Maine, 1956-58, Camden Outing Club. 1956-58; editor and publisher. Maine
Coast Fisherman, 1946-60; director, Portland Chamber of Commerce. 1951-54;
president, Advertising Associates of Maine, Portland, Maine, 1951-54; lecturer,
Munson Memorial Institute of Maritime History, Mystic Marine Museum,

Mystic, Conn., 1951-60.

After graduation I made a short bicycle trip through Europe and re-
turned to work in the production planning department of the Fisk Tire
Company at Chicopee Falls, Massachusetts. In 1940 I enlisted in the
Navy where I spent the next five years, mostly in the Pacific. For me,
the most memorable occasions were the Doolittle raid from the carrier
Hornet and the battle of Midway. I returned to pick up a small wooden
vessel and take her from a Maine shipyard across the South Pacitic to
New Guinea. Then I skippered a repair ship with a floating drvdock in
tow, a curious collection of headaches and laughs.

In 1946 I was reporter with the Portland Press Herald when JU had
a chance to start a new publication for the owner of the weekly paper
at Belfast, Maine. Classmate Tony Butler and I barnstormed the coast
for sales and stories, The resulting trade paper, Maine Coast Fishernesn,
covering the commercial fishing and boat-building Industries proved
surprisingly successful.

In 1952 I married Miss Joan Perry of Camden, Maine. We have been
blessed with a family of five children. We moved from Portlaad to
Camden in 1955 and opened a publishing ottice there.

042 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

I have enjoyed the trout fishing, duck hunting and sailing available in
Maine. In the belief that one of our most pressing problems in the next
decade is to develop a workable conservation plan, I started a new
publication, Outdoor Maine. Although this had a rapid circulation
growth, it did not attract the necessary advertising support and we dis-
continued it after two years.

In 1961 1 went to Washington to organize a public affairs office for
the Assistant Secretary of Defense (civil defense) and work up a public
information program. For the past year | have been working on civil
rights and Panama Canal problems in the office of the Undersecretary
of the Army.

We have found the transition from a small Maine coast town to Wash-

ington exciting but like to get back to salt water and fir trees when we
can.

DINWIDDIE SMITH

cerrey
} : )
: E a

4)

* .
le

Aiiesinil csncainntis waa tient cliche BME ad

eal

Lo

a

e

é

ser a
my
¢ ‘

aot
‘ey

   

”

a] : ‘ i
a Fad “wats 2a {

HOME aporess: P.O. Box C, Bridgehampton, Long Island, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Jean Carol Wheaton, June 26, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Retired.

OFFICES HELD: Member, School Board, Fire Department; trustee, Presbyterian
Church, Historical Society, Bridgehampton.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Amateur Comedy Club, New York City;

The Corinthians; Seawanhaka-Corinthian Yacht Club; South Fork Chamber
Music Society (founding member).

  

  

Upon graduating 1 entered the sugar business very much on the
ground floor. The first piece of advice my boss gave me was to forget
that I had ever been to college. Said he, “As far as we are concerned
you are a complete ignoramus. Study sugar as though you had never
gone to school. It will be later on that your Harvard education will
prove valuable.”

A decade and a half elapsed before I learned the truth of his words.
I had left the sugar ficld and obtained work in a shipyard as a member of
the “chain gang” which performed all the common labor, Noting that
the minimum wage was $1.50 and that I was to receive $1.58, I questioned

my employer about the extra eight cents, “Ah,” he mused, “that is
because you went to Harvard.”

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 943

EDRIC BROOKS SMITH, JR.

  

HOME ADDRESS: 967 Forest, Birmingham, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: College of Education, Wayne State University, Detroit, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Gorton High School, Yonkers, N.Y.; Phillips Academy, Andover,
Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; AME. 1950; 4p Dp.
(Columbia Univ.), 1953.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Williamson, June, 1946. cHitp: Jonathan. Sept. 26, 1950,

occuPaTION: Professor of English and chairman, Dept. of Elementary Education,
Wayne State University.

OFFICES HELD: President, New England Association for Student Teaching: men-
ber, executive committee, National Association for Student Teaching: member,
Committee on School and College Relations, American Association of Collars
for Teacher Education; member, Educational Advisory Committee, Plimoth
Plantation.

MEMBER OF: A.A.U.P.; N.E.A., Higher Education; D.E.S.P.; AS.C.D.

PUBLICATIONS: Pilgrim Courage, 1962, Coming of the Pilgrims, W904 Riding with
Coronado, 1964, with W. R. Meredith, Little Brown: The Engiish Language
and Teaching Children, 1965, with W. R. Meredith and KA. Goodman, Paid
Mead.

Although I don’t recall being particularly bent toward the tel of edu-
cation in my final years at Harvard, 1 do know 1 became engrossed ovat
as an apprentice teacher at the Shady Hill School the year following
graduation. That’s the vear we were ‘challenged to commitment as war
came, Education of children seemed one human activity in which hope
might still reside.

I continue to believe that there is hope if we could only tind the kev:
stone which will hold the arch with education on the ene side and dite’s
activity on the other. Dewey's notion of knowing as the transaction eae h
individual’s reflective thinking makes with expe nenee still seems more
adequate than most constructions. The prac hitione ryof proyressive ehu
cation diluted the intellectual rigor of Dewey's concept, Now the pra.
titioners of modern cognitive theory led by the “colle we firsters” nenere
the ever-present essential of childhood ex perience. We keep hosing oe
dropping the key, Perhaps in the neve twenty-five vears Dewes se netien
will be reconsidered and vitalized by new undersranliig: abet the
psychology of thinking, and teachers will find w ays te make ebic ation
effective in the world. I guess Pam stillan opemist anda teacher eb.
tor who is not willing to jive up.

(944 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

My first school teaching career was interrupted in Kansas City by the
Draft. Although I was given some educative responsibilities in the Army
Air Forces along the four years of progress from private first class to
captain, my main military assignment was in S-2 with a bomber group in
England. Following the war I returned to the Shady Hill School as a
teacher and to Harvard as a graduate student in education.

Cambridge in the spring brought about the expected, marriage to a
teaching colleague at Shady Hill. Both of us trekked the following year
way out west to Winnetka where we taught for three years at the North
Shore Country Day School. With a yen to enter the field of public edu-
cation we returned to my home town, Yonkers, New York. I taught
for three years in the public schools of Scarsdale and during this time
was most pleased by the birth of a son. While teaching in Scarsdale I
started to study at Teachers College, Columbia University, in their
doctoral program preparing college teachers of education. I was fortu-
nate to be given a teaching fellowship. Upon completion of the degree
I stayed on a year to direct their elementary education pre-service pro-

ram.

. Then came an opportunity to teach at Wheelock College in Boston
and coordinate their program of teacher education as well as head their
small graduate division and summer school. While there the occasion
developed for the preparation of Pilgrim Courage with a colleague in
English. It is an adaptation of Governor Bradford’s history and journals
for older children. During two of those summers I had the privilege of
teaching in the Harvard Summer School.

A move back to public education came when I accepted the position
of professor of education at Wayne State University. My hope to pro-
fess only and not administrate lasted one short year before my being ap-
pointed chairman of the Elementary Education Department. One has
to be more than optimistic about education to take on the chairmanship
of a department; he needs his head examined.

GERALD MORTON SMITH

    

HOME Appress: 97 Hungry Harbor Rd., Valley Stream, Long Island, N.Y
OFFICE appress: Gottesman, Wolgel & Smith, 100 William St., New York. N.Y
PREPARED AT: Bartlett High School, Webster, Mass. uo
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; nLp., 1942

<

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 945

MARRIED: Lorraine Ina Waldman, March 14, 1954. cHILDREN: Mark Storey, Feb. 21,
1955; Carlton Malben, Dec. 15, 1956,

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

The Law School was good enough to graduate me in absentia in June,
1942, by which time I was already in military service, which in the
course of four years took me from a second lieutenant line pilot to a
flying aide to a flying general (Hardin), my overseas service being
principally in the China, Burma, India Theatre. I left the Air Corps a
major.

F ollowing a short fling at commercial aviation with a Latin American
airline (TACA), I took a somewhat longer look at government regula-
tion of industry with the C.A.B. in Washington, D.C. During my so-
journ there, I was admitted to the District of Columbia Bar, where 1

ractised briefly, following which I moved to New York Citv.

After learning something about the surety business in the New York
City office of a large surety company (INA), and after being admitted
to the New York Bar, I joined Samuel Gottesman in the practice of law,
specializing in suretyship and insurance. The office has recently become
Gottesman, Wolgel & Smith.

My marriage and home life provide, not unexpectedly, my most re-
warding moments. My two boys are just approaching the grass cutting
age, and I have hopes—the old bones are not being what they used
to be, though I regularly commit them each summer and fall to my
wife’s prize dahlias.

I take occasional busman’s holidays when I serve as a referce in the
smal] claims part of the New York Civil Court, and when I served as an
arbitrator for the American Arbitration Association.

PAUL JAY SMITH

Pay

    
 

  

HOME ADDRESS: 616 Timber Lane, Devon. Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wyeth Labs, P.O, Box 8299, Philadelphia 1, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Chaminade High School, Dayton, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1939, DEGREES: A.B, 1939; vee, DOLE

MARRIED: Audrey Howland, May, 1943 (cdivereed 195013 Rachel Plarfan Willar,
July 17, 1954. cumpreX: Stephen Howland, November, [its bilan Renee,
November, 1949 (stepdaughter); Daryl Wilham, April li2) fetepwear,
Sara Jayne, March, 1956.

946 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

occupation: Director of market research, Wyeth Labs, an ethical pharmaceutical
concern.

oFFices HELD: Chairman, Squash Racquets Committee, Merion Cricket Club
Haverford, Pa. ,

MEMBER OF: Merion Cricket Club; International Pharmaceutical Market Research
Organization.

Just three months after graduation I was back in Cambridge again to
spend the following two years at Harvard Business School, receiving my
M.B.A., in June, 1941. Immediately after that I was called to active duty
as an ensign in the U.S. Naval Reserves. Some long fifty-two months
later, after an uneventful naval career, including service at overseas bases,
the Canal Zone, Pearl Harbor, etc., I was released as a lieutenant com-
mander. While in the Navy (May, 1943) I married Audrey Howland
of Longmeadow, Massachusetts. Upon returning to the United States
late in 1945, I started civilian life as a store manager trainee with the
United Rexall Drug Company back again in Boston, While “learning
the business” in various Liggett Drug Stores, [ went to a Night School
of Pharmacy and eventually passed the State Board Examination to ob-
tain a certificate as a registered pharmacist.

Along about that time (1947), the manufacturing end of the drug busi-
ness looked a little “greener” than managing a drug store, so we moved
down to Philadelphia to work in the Economic Research Division of
Sharp & Dohme, an ethical pharmaceutical concern. While there, I de-
cided to attempt a Ph.D. in night school at the University of Pennsyl-
vania, and at the same time to teach marketing at the Wharton School of
Commerce and Finance. Two years of this, along with a regular forty-
hour work week, finally proved too much, and I left Penn to concen-
trate on business.

Then in rapid succession came fourteen years with another ethical
drug company, Wyeth Labs, also located in Philadelphia. Initially, I was
“in the field” detailing drugs to doctors, hospitals and retail pharmacies
in Southwestern Ohio, and then moved into the home office as director
of market research; our little research group has now grown to a staff of
eight, analyzing market surveys not only in drugstores and hospitals
throughout the United States but in many foreign countries as well.

Meanwhile, I was divorced, and several years later in July, 1954, mar-
ried Rachel Harlan Willar, a Philadelphian, who attended the Cathedral
School of St. Mary’s, Garden City, Long Island; 1 now have two step-
children, Ellen, a teen-ager, and Daryl, who will be twelve next spring,
and we have our own little Sara Jayne, a delightful seven. Daryl has
had squash lessons since he was eight, although if and when his grades
improve and he moves on to Harvard at what promises to be six feet and
some 200 pounds, John Yovicsin may have other ideas,

Speaking about athletics, ] am now chairman of the Squash Racquets
Committee at the Merion Cricket Club, “Birthplace of Squash Champ-
ions,” and one of my most rewarding experiences through the years has
been working with the young squash hopefuls; traditionally, 1 teach the
fundamentals of the game to the boys in our “Squash Stable” between
ages ten and fourteen, and then pass them along to one of our many ex-
national champions for polish and the fine points, Next in line for them

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 947

is customarily the National Junior Championship, and then on to Har-
vard, we hope.

RICHARD FABIAN PHILLIPS SMITH

 

HOME ApDpRESS: R.F.D. 1, Mammoth Road, Derry, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sanders Associates, Inc., Nashua, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Newton Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937.

MARRIED: Betty B. Bartholomew, June, 1940. cHimpreN: Carol, March 29, 1941;
Bradford Phillips, June 26, 1944; Madeline Webster, June 1, 1950; Webster
Phillips, Feb. 1, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Engineering program manager, military electronics.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles in electronic trade magazines; one patent.

After two years of college (wish I had finished) spent four years in
broadcast transmitter work. During the war worked on navy communi-
cations and sonar equipment at the Brooklyn Navy Yard, then going to
Hazeltine Electronics on Long Island. Lived in Port W ashington "and
Northport, Long Island, from 1945 through 1959, in military electronics
work, and raising four children.

Returned to New England, I hope permanently, in late rosy to join
Sanders Associates, Inc., Nashua, New Hampshire (still military elee-
tronics), Living in a big old house in the small town of Londonde rry,
New Hampshire, and really enjoying work and life in general.

Wife Betty now working i in local school; eldest d: aughter, Carol, gradu-
ated from University of Michigan, 1963, and teaching in Manchester,
Connecticut, school; eldest son, a sophomore zoology major at the Un-
versity of Colorado, and two youngest children still in grammar school.

948 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

JAMES MONTGOMERY SNOW, JR.

   

HOME ADDRESS: 182 Rowayton Ave., Rowayton, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harrison & Abramovitz, 630 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Amesbury High School, Amesbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; B.ARCH., 1949.

marrteD: Emily Elizabeth Mantler, July 12, 1952.

occupation: Staff architect, Harrison & Abramovitz.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Harvard Club of New York;
Harvard Varsity Club; 4th Armored Division Association; Darien Power
Squadron.

Has it really been twenty-five years? Can one really believe it?!! Why,
I spent, it seerns sometimes, a third of that time just completing my so-
called formal education. .... Bachelor in Architecture, 1949.

The war was over. It was 1946 and I sat on Widener steps and saw my
first Harvard Commencement. (I was at Redtop in 1939.) General
George Marshall announced his famous plan; General Bradley, and others
.... all received the kudos and thanks of a grateful nation and uni-
versity. After five years of service I was just grateful to be there and able
to work toward my degree.

1949 was not actually the best year to launch an architectural career
in New York, but the low pay was more than made up for by the ex-
perience and excitement of those first years.

Today, as a staff architect for Harrison & Abramovitz, I can say that
my most memorable moments have been those associated with our work
on Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts..... the development
of the Grand Plan, the selection of the architects, President Eisenhower
at the groundbreaking, opening night at Philharmonic Hall, etc., etc.
These are highlights against a background of years of unending research,
plans and models, made and remade, and all the necessary work inherent
in a project of such scope.

Currently, 1 am at work on the American Telephone and Telegraph
Company pavilion at the World’s Fair, 1964. So-called leisure time is
devoted to tennis and sailing. My wife and I are tennis buffs, and when
not running around the courts, are to be found beating around Long
Island Sound in a day sailer.

All right, it’s been twenty-five years,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 949

JAMES HASTINGS SNOWDEN
poe . de emt eo une 4

   
 

Sa ERAT TE TORR A

mee ween

 

HOME ADDRESS: 47 Valley Ridge Rd., Forth Worth, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 750 W. Fifth St., Forth Worth, Texas.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Frances Gardner, June 23, 1937. cHILDREN: James Hastings, 2. and
Janet (twins), June 16, 1947.

occuPpATION: Independent oil operator.

OFFICES HELD: President, Fort Worth Opera Association, 1953-58, Casa Manana,
since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, Links Club, River Club (all New York
City); Forth Worth Club; Rivererest Country Club and Shady Oake
Country Club, Fort Worth, Texas.

During the war I served in the Navy, serving aboard a destrover in
the North Atlantic and Mediterranean during 1943 and 1944, and finish-
ing up as aide to the Commandant of the New York Navy Yard. I was
discharged as a lieutenant in 1945.

Since the war my primary business interest has been in oil develop.
ment and production, chiefly in the mid-continent areca although I have
recently got interested in Alaska. In 1946 I organized the Texerete Com:
pany, a concrete products manufacturer, which was merged in tgso with
the Texas Lightweight Aggregate Company to form Texas Industries.

My chief avocational interest has been in the ficld of civic opera and
musical theatre. This has actually been more by necesity than chowe,
because I found that when one gets involved in this sort of thing it as
hard to get loose. The main direction of my efforts has been tow ard
bolstering these inherently uneconomic activities with peripheral projets
which normally can be expected to operate at a protit, specifically cer:
tain academic projects and a costume manufacturing and rental servine.
It has seemed to me that this type of financing is IN mast feapects prefer:
able to the usual recourse of systematic alms-secking.

I find the Class Report Committee's invitation to comment on “seul,
political and religious” matters particularly tempting, since TP have been
working for some time on an essay which overlaps this trio of suyyeure

topics, Also I would concur that a cross section of Opinions and arnrades.
although no doubt necessarily sketchy because of space limratiansy payhe
well be of more interest to many of the Class than a mere Corn pacrnch cain

950 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

of vital and vocational statistics. However, for my own part, I must aq
mit that I have been unable to boil down anything at all meaningful to ,
size which would fit into this present capsule. a

CHARLES CAMPBELL SNYDER +
: y

ae

   
 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: Goshen Road, Litchfield, Conn.

HOWARD JACOB SNYDER

   

HOME apprEss: 110-45 Queens Blvd., Forest Hills 75, New York, N.Y.

OFFICE AppRESS: Chicago Pneumatic Tool Co., 6 E. 44th St., New York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.; Polytechnic Prepara-
tory Country Day School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREES: A.B., 1939; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1942.

MARRIED: Audrey Stern, Oct. 2, 1942. cutLp: Daniel, June 5, 1944.

occupaTion: Industrial relations director, Chicago Pneumatic Tool Company,
negotiate union contracts, conduct arbitration cases, advise plants on grievance
settlements, personnel policy, workmen’s compensation, employee benefits, etc.

OFFIcES HELD: District captain, 9th A.D. Republican Club, 1945-46; treasurer,
Young Married Guild, 1946-49; secretary, Committee on Labor and Industry,
New York Republican Club, 1946-47,

MEMBER OF: Bar Association of the City of New York.

Your request for my autobiography came at a time when I had just
finished reading that portion of John Stcinbeck’s Travels With Charley

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT Ost

where, true to Addison’s precepts, he makes known the Writer to the
Reader. Steinbeck set forth sixty years of his life in two pages of master-
ful English prose. A feeling of hopeless inadequacy has haunted me ever
since. Pages thirty-nine to forty-one of the Travels should be required
reading for all autobiographers.

The prose that follows may not be masterful bur it will assuredly not
be brief. (Who was it who apologized for writing a long letter because
he didn’t have time to write a short one? Well, he was wrong. Ie isn’t
a question of time; it’s a matter of skill. You have to watch these cpi-
grams.)

After Harvard there followed three years at Columbia Law and mv
LL.B. At the end of my first year I toured the Unired States with two
classmates. I have been told that my letters home merit publication, My
mother was a woman of discernment.

From 1942 to 1944 I was an intelligence agent in the Army. Plenty of
cloak and dagger stuff but all of it in the training course. My talents at
“lifting” tire prints and trailing suspects are deteriorating rapidly. Now-
adays I can’t distinguish the marks of a snow ure from a sled.

I was married in 1942 after a brief acquaintanceship and a short, stormy
engagement. Honeymoon on a three-day pass, to boot. T Vpical quick
war marriage, the kind that seldom last. “My wife and I are wainng ap-
prehensively for the inevitable breakup. Have one son, Daniel now
nineteen. He is completely unimpressed by tales of my youthful hard-
ships, such as taking subways to prep school and renting taxis to Wel-
lesley.

After the Army there followed five years with a large Wall Street
law firm. (Wall Street law firms, I understand, are now a tv pe and not
a location, and can be found in Chicago, Pittsburgh, and Cleveland, Ohio.
But never in Boston.) We “juniors’ used to joke about the vast intanyi-
ble benefits to be derived from this training. In retrospect, these benetits
were not so intangible. You learn to think fast, for one. An important
client telephones you at 5:00 p.m. Friday with the fascinaung intelligence
that the C.1.O. is about to break into his place. He wants vou to form
a company union for him over the weekend. You have one whole second
to come up with the answer.

I specialized i in labor law there and through this specialization | found
my niche, (“No, Daniel, I won't tell you the difference between tne he’
and ‘rut.’ Look it up yourself. How will vou ever learn? ™) PE became
interested in the day-to-day dealings with unions and in labor relate
problems. Over the succeeding years I occupied a series of corporate
positions, each of greater responsibility, I have developed an undder-
standing of union members, committeemen, and leaders, TP know whee
they want, and quite often 1 know how to keep them frou getting at
In my present work, very little crosses my desk that is nota prob leer Te
wouldn’t get there if it wasn't, and Tenjoy coming up with answers

Basically, Lam quite happy. Through a combination of circuinstiness
some job-connected and some resulting from pure benevolence, Pha
accumulated a fair, though not overw helining, s share of wealth anv casts
My only small disappointment is my failure te de anvthing pols ala
hope I entertained at college. Butt ‘have no Passion for Mir Gal bers
and the Grand Old Party. The country has changed, certian dha:

952 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

not be reversed. Fundamentally, the Party into which I was literally
born (my father was an active Republican of stature in New York Cit
in a past era) wants to go backward. Yer I cannot identify myself with
the Democratic Party. I fear the growing and unrestricted power of
labor unions in many areas, and I loathe the daily legal atrocities com-
mitted by the National Labor Relations Board in what passes for ad-
ministrative justice. So today I find myself one of those vigorous
moderates (beautiful contradiction, but we do exist) whose vote is sought
avidly by both sides but who himself is without party or forum.

All in all, no major complaints about life and its treatment of me and
very much to be grateful for. I would wish my classmates no worse.

IRVING HENRY SODEN

*

=f

  

A ROR MERE TOE ILE IT I AE

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Kensington Rd., Concord, N.H.

OFFICE appRESs: Sulloway, Hollis, Godfrey & Soden, 9 Capitol St., Concord, N.H.
PREPARED AT: Worcester South High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pecrees: s.8., 1939; LiB., 1943.

married: Evelyn Kimball, July 18, 1948. cxitpren: Richard Kimball, Nov. 9,

1949; Janet Elizabeth, April 19, 1951; Marsha Jean, Sept. 27, 1953; Barbara
J., Jan. 28, 1957.

occuPATION: Lawyer.

OFFicES HELD: Chairman, Concord School Board, 1962-63; president, Concord
Country Club, 1960-62; chairman, board of trustees, South Congregational
Church, since 1962; president, 1950-52, secretary-treasurer, since 1952, Har-
vard Club of New Hampshire; chairman, Committee on Professional Conduct,

New Hampshire Bar Association, since 1962; Merrimack County chairman,
BS.A., 1961-62.

memBeR OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New Hampshire; Concord Rotary
Club; Concord Country Club; Harvard Varsity Club; American, New

Hampshire and Merrimack County Bar Associations; Federation of Insurance
Counsel.

Following graduation J joined the highly dignified messenger force
of the Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company. The messengers read
the financial pages religiously, dressed like bank presidents, and made
$14.85 weekly, after social security, In order to eat, a habit which I
thoroughly enjoyed at college, 1 went with Graybar Electri

i : : c Company,
as a sales trainee, after six months in the field of high fina

nce, Finding

this extremely dull, I entered the Harvard Law School in Ser

otember,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 953

19q0, and received my degree in February, 1943. A ruptured disc pre-
vented military service, and I worked in one of the Wall Screct law
factories for about six months. I then served for two years as law clerk
for Judge Peter Woodbury of the First Circuit Court of Appeals. In
1945 I became associated with my present firm in Concord, New Hamp-
shire, and became a partner in 1951. Since that time I have specialized
in trial work, representing insurance companies, uuliues and the medical
and dental societies. I wish I could say that I've won them all, but New
Hampshire has always been a plaintff’s paradise.

In my earlier years I continued playing in dance bands, and for several
years broadcast schoolboy sports on several local stations. 1 remained
a bachelor until I got tired of a monastic existence and got married in
1948. Accordingly, children are still relatively young. Having three
girls and an intellectually lazy (to date) son, I have no indication that I
shall ever have a Harvard son.

I have always kept closely in touch with Harvard affairs, being active
in the local club, doing schools and scholarship committee work, and
being a regular season ticket holder in the Stadium (can’t recall missing
a home game since 1935). If I were to relive the past twenty-five year,
there is very little which I would want to do differently.

CHESTER IRWIN SOLOMON

    

HOME ADDRESS: 59 Whitewood Rd., Westwood, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1219 River St.. Hyde Park, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Breokline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. brGREES: A.B. 1939; D.w.p., 1943,

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Private practice of general dentistry.

OFFICES HELD: National marshal, 1956, president, Boston Alumni Chapter, Post @&
Alpha Omega Fraternity; president, Greater Roston Dental Society, Pant at,
instructor in operative dentistry, Tufts University School of Dental Wealn ine,
1955-62; director, School for Dental Assistants, Beth feracl Hoepital, omee
1960; assistant professor of restorative dentistry, Boston LU nivensitg Se hen
of Medicine, 1963-64; director, School for Dental Asentants. Pastoe bia
versity — Massachusetts Memorial Hospitale Medical Center, [and 64, aad
member, Beth Isracl and Massachusetts Memorial Hoepitale.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Odontological Soviety; Harvard Club of Heatea. Sew
Century Club; American Dental Association; Massachusetts Deatal So wty,
Metropolitan District Dental Society,

954 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

After graduation from Harvard Dental School in 1943, 1 went into
service with the Army Air Force and was stationed in England for the
greater part of the time as captain and dental surgeon of the 453d Heavy
Bombardment Group. After my discharge I opened my office for the
practice of general dentistry in Hyde Park, Massachusetts.

I was a visiting instructor in operative dentistry at Tufts School of
Dental Medicine for a number of years, but now direct most of my
teaching efforts to the School for Dental Assistants at the Massachusetts
Memorial Hospitals and the Beth Israel Hospital. I direct the programs at
the respective hospitals as well as teach anatomy, radiology, physiology
and other basic sciences at the schools.

Tam a member of the executive committee for the Graduate School of
Dentistry at B.U. School of Medicine and a member of the staff at the
Massachusetts Memorial Hospitals and the Beth Israel Hospital. I hold
an appointment as assistant professor at the B.U. School of Medicine.

] have been very active in the Alpha Omega International Dental Fra-
ternity and have held various positions in this organization. I have been
president of the Boston Alumni Chapter, National Marshal, and am now
regent of the New England area. I have just completed a term as presi-
dent of the Greater Boston Dental Society and am a member of the
executive board of the New Century Club.

In 1953 and again in 1959, | made extended trips in Europe and en-
visage further travels in Europe and the Far East in years to come.

I moved to Westwood, Massachusetts, almost three years ago, and own
a redwood ranch with an acre of land in countrified surroundings. My
hobbies of piano playing, singing and hi-fi record and tape collecting
have since been amplified by my horticultural activities about the new
house. I find gardening so fascinating that ] have great plans for adding
a greenhouse-conservatory, and would like to devote more time to
these activities as the years go on. I have acquired a female Weimaraner,
who is a joy, and plan to breed her, something I could never have done
as an apartment dweller.

1am an independent voter, though more often than not my vote has
gone to the Democratic Party. I maintain an active interest and concern
in town affairs. | attend Symphony on Saturday nights in the same seats
Ihave held since college days, and participate actively in the other musical
and cultural events in and about Boston.

I look back rather nostalgically to college days in the thirties, but con-
sider that my happiest days have been those of my more mature years.

‘The Harvard vears were stimulating and wonderful, but they were just
a beginning. Life is good.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 955

RICHARD ALLAN SOLOMON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6805 Delaware St., Chevy Chase 15, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Power Commission, GAO Bldg., 445 G St., N.W., Wash-
ington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; Lie. (Yale
Univ.) , 1942.

MARRIED: Elinor R. Harris, March 30, 1957. CHILDREN: Joan Lynn, Feb. 26, 1958;
Robert Harris, May 28, 1960; Thomas Herbert, Sept. 30, 1962.

occuPATION: Attorney; general counsel, Federal Power Commission.

OFFICES HELD: President, Yale Law School Association of Washington, 1963.

MEMBER OF: Federal Bar Association; Yale Law School Association; Harvard Club
of Washington.

Twenty-five years after graduation finds me surprisingly self-satis-
fied with my existence. -Though I was single until I was almost forty, I
now find myself with a charming wife and three interesting, if occasion-
ally irritating, children. And professionally I have within the last two
years reached one of the higher plateaus to which a career government
lawyer can aspire in the general counselship of the Federal Power Com-
mission. This inevitably means that this report will seem smug when I
read it in later years.

Like others, I recognize the narrowing conventionality produced by
suburbia. But I find I like it. The novelty of a house after four decades
of apartment dwelling has not worn off, and coming to it this late in our
careers we have been able to avoid the most depressing aspects of the
stereotyped development. Moreover, an over-indulgent wife has en-
abled me to skip the most onerous aspects of baby tending and lawn
mowing, This leaves me largely sedentary — but that’s no real change
since I always have been a non-athlete.

My attitude towards my work is similar. During the many vears I
spent at the Federal Communications Commission, my interest in my
job was increasingly offset by a feeling that I had reached my haut ot
progress too soon. (I had been a first lieutenant in the Air Corps during
the war for what then scemed like forever, and mv long tenure at the
FCC as an assistant general counsel was beginning to take on distressing ly
similar overtones.) But a combination of fortuitous events pernureed: ine
to move to interesting new arcas, first as chief of the Appellate Section
of the Antitrust Division of the Department of Justice and now ar che

956 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Federal Power Commission. This is an agency confronted with most dif.
ficult tasks which after a long period of relative ineffectuality is now
struggling to prove that regulation for the benefit of the public is com-
patible with industrial development.

Despite these relatively recent changes domestically and_profession-
ally, I retain I believe the same basic viewpoint on life — mildly optimis-
tic, mildly liberal. I don’t think this country is going to the dogs or the
Goldwaters. I do think, despite all the obvious difficulties, that we are
doing pretty well in the international struggle which seems fated to be
with us all our lives. I find the current struggle over civil rights, painful
though it is to recognize that all of us have done so little in such an ob-
vious area of morality, a sign of progress rather than of decay. Not be-
ing a zealot helps, Since I don’t expect the millennium I’m not disap-
pointed when presidents turn out to be politicians as well as statesmen.
If all of this hazy philosophizing irritates some of my more mordant

classmates, perhaps it can be blamed at least equally on my legal educa-
tion at Yale.

 

HOME apprEss: 19 Appleton Circle, Newton Centre, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Blue Star Shoes, Inc., Lawrence, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939,

marrieD: Beatrice Belis, Sept. 27, 1942. cHILDREN: Judith, July 5, 1946; Mark,
Oct. 9, 1949; Jaclin, Nov. 18, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Sales manager, Blue Star Shoes, Inc. manufacturer of children’s
shoes.

OFFICES HELD: President, Temple P.T.A., 1962-43.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club; Moses Michael Hays Lodge, A.F. & A.M.;
The 210 Associates.

At first reflection it seemed unrealistic to be asked to sum up twenty-
five years of one’s life in a few hundred words. On putting pen to paper,
however, one soon comes to the very sobering conclusion that time truly
is fleeting and that most of one’s life is spent in such mundane pursuits
as do not make exciting material for a published aucobio raphy, Most
of the years intervening since graduation have revolved about home

and family and the means of maintaining both in a manner to which 1],
when a student, was never accustomed.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 95>

Like most young men who were in their early twenties when the laste
“official” war broke out, I saw service with the Armed Forees. My tour
of duty took me to the South Pacific from New Caledonia to Guadal-
canal and to the Philippines as commanding officer of a company of
Negro troops, whose function was to load and unload ships carry Ing War
matériel.

Postwar found me in the business world, specifically the shoe industry
— at first as a wholesaler of women’s shoes (not too succesfully), latee
as a traveling salesman for a manufacturer of children’s shoes (very suc-
cessfully), and today as a sales manager.

My three children range in age from nine to seventeen, and Saturday
afternoon in the fall of the year now finds all five of us hned up on a
concrete bench at Harvard Stadium. My wife is a spirited particapant in
community activities of such quality as to make up for my neglect in
this area. My elder daughter has just recently returned from sax months
in the dynamic new State of Israel, where she lived as an exchange student.
This was a most rewarding experience, in addiuon to which she traveled
through Greece, Italy, France and Holland, none of which the senior
members of this family have had the pleasure of visiting. One day soon
we hope to correct this situation.

In the area of life revolving about the family, mv wife and | look
forward in 1964 to renewing the excitement of the college years through
our daughter. We'd like to be going back with her!!

RICHARD WARREN SOMMERS

LPO gE NORM ch a ROR

 

HOME aporess: 2240 Galahad Drive, Indianapolie 8 Ind.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1602 N. Meridian St., Indianapolie, Ind.
PREPARED aT: Park School, Indianapolis, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pecrnes: su, 1939; aw. CP lcthes Shen of Dae
and Diplomacy), 19-40.

MARRIED: Sher Lee Cheek, Dee. 3, 1955. cotnass Mary Erne, bob om be.
Wendy, Jan. 9, 1900; Julie. Feb. 15, 1961,

OCCUPATION: Restaurant owner,

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, World Trade Committees, Incleanap die (hase ter of ot
merece, 19515 president, Central Indiana Traniw Venn sate, bai os

After a very enjoyable year at the Fletcher Noheel quence rhe fos
ing year here in Indianapolis with my parents and attended abe a bo

958 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ness college. In the latter part of 1941 and first part of 1942 worked for
the Gallup Poll on the road from St. Louis to Springfield, Massachusetts,
as well as in their Princeton office. It was a real interesting, if not lucra-
tive, job. Was drafted in April, 1942, and after picking up cigarette butts
(fortunately the pre-filter kind) for a year ended up at Ohio State in
ASTP. Completed the Army course in Italian there and was pleased to
be able to speak it pretty well at that time. The Army apparently learned
of my new accomplishment as they shipped me to the CBI. Spent about
a vear overseas including the thirty day boat trip over and twenty-five
day boat trip home. Drove a two and one-half ton GMC over the 1o40-
mile Ledo-Burma Road as my only contribution to the war effort. Heard
gunfire for the first time two days after V-J Day when Chiang’s boys
and those of the governor of Yunnan Province started mixing it up in
Kunming, After my discharge in April, 1946 (1 was a staff sergeant by
then) went to work in the export department of my family’s auto parts
business, where I remained till 1955. Had one fine six weeks’ business
trip to Europe in 1949. 1955 was a big year for me —I found a psychia-
trist, a new business and a wife — though not necessarily in that order.
I had known my wife for five years and only wish now that I had known
my business partner that long. But that’s too sad a story to bore you with.
Now have two restaurants and wish I had one. It’s a tough but fascinat-
ing business for anyone who likes to deal with the public, which I must
since I do enjoy it. Our name is the Big Top and if you’re ever here
in town wish you would drop by. If you don’t remember me I'll prob-
ably be the “slightly” balding guy sitting behind the cash register. Have
a wonderful wife —beautiful, young, intelligent and talented — and
three little girls who 1 hope will be the other three but are definitely
the second now: five and one-half, three and one-half, and two and one-
half. They're tremendous.

_ My only claim to fame was getting my name in the New York Times
by dint of Eddie Sachs’ having been socked in the jaw by Parnelli Jones,
winner of this year’s 500-Mile Race. Was part owner of Eddie’s car in
the 500 and also of Jack Turner’s car which flipped twelve and one-half
times in practice prior to the 500. In spite of this year’s experiences we
hope to be back next year with Eddie’s car and possibly with one of the
new creations also. If you’re ever here during May would love to show
you all the Speedway activity and if you’ve never seen a 500 race I think
you would find it a real thrill.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 959

DANIEL RICHARD SORTWELL, JR.

 

HOME AppRESS: Main Street, Sherborn, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: D.C. Heath & Co., 285 Columbus Ave., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Nancy H. Bascom, Nov. 29, 1947. CHILDREN: Daniel Richard, 3d, Oct. 11,
1948; Edward B., Jan. 10, 1950; Cynthia G., Dec. 30, 1952.
OCCUPATION: Publishing — editor.

The past fifteen years or so, since being separated from the Army of
the U.S., I seem to have spent most of my waking hours in reading. Since
I have been an editor in a publishing house this is understandable, though
I also enjoy reading a fair amount in my spare time. Some of this read-
ing leads to worrying about the state of the world and the government
in Washington. However, since I am naturally a worrier, I also find time
to worry about such things as my children’s marks at school and whether
the roof is going to leak. We live in an old colonial house and naturally
this leads to a good deal of time being spent trying to keep it from fall-

ing apart. When my conscience permits, 1 manage to get in a little
hunting or skiing or sailing.

THAYER SOULE

cam
:
z
|
5
x
‘

  

HOME AppRESS: 18 Reitz Pkwy., Pittsford, N.Y.

g60 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

OFFICE ADDRESS: Associated Film Artists, 30 N. Raymond Ave., Pasadena, Calif,
PREPARED AT: Monree High School, Rochester, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Nancy Parks, April 18, 1953. cHiLpREN: Robin Elisabeth, July 6, 1955.
Cynthia Ballou, March 3, 1962, ,

OCCUPATION: Production and presentation of travel motion pictures.

Ever since graduation I have been producing travel films in all parts
of the world, and presenting them in person throughout the United
States and Canada. For the first nineteen years I was associated with the
great old traveler himself, Burton Holmes, Since his death in 1958 I have
been in business for myself. Production work has taken me to well over
fifty countries all over the world. Presentation of the films takes me from
Boston to Honolulu and from Edmonton to San Antonio nearly every
season.

If you think this complicates things at home you are right. Nancy
and I were married in 1953, and she has put up with it, and with me, for
ten years now, but it is hard. On production trips, Robin comes with
us and gets a great deal out of it, more each year. Cindy is still too small,
so up to now we have had to leave her at home. Production is a family
project as a rule, and we have especially enjoyed making two films in
this country, and one in England. We are usually gone about two
months.

Presentation is too tough a schedule for the family much of the time,
but we frequently spend February and March in southern California,
where I am able to stay put pretty well for a period of weeks. We in-
cluded Hawaii one year, and plan to do so again next year. All in all,
the work does have a great many rewarding aspects, and we can all en-
joy them. But it does cut out almost completely any participation in
local political or other activities.

During World War II, I served four years in the Marine Corps as
photographic officer. I led the Corps first field photo unit at Guadal-
canal in 1942, and another unit on Iwo Jima in 1945. At war’s end I was
in charge of all Marine Corps photographing in the Pacific, with the
rank of captain. I finally succeeded in obtaining retired status in the re-
serve, now wear the uniform only on Memorial Day (it still fits!). Some-
how I was promoted to lieutenant colonel along the way.

My family has been a great joy to me, and I am now hard at work on
ways to spend more time at home. Television is promising in that re-
gard, and perhaps before too long 1 can do most of my presentations from
studios, an idea which appeals to me more and more as time goes on.

I find time for a good workout at the Y at least twice a week. Crew
had to be abandoned when I left school, but I still play some squash, and
manage to keep in pretty good shape.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 96

PETER MUNRO SOUTTER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 306 Sweetbrier Rd., Greenville, S.C
OFFICE ADDRESS: Henderson Advertising Agency, Greenville, S.C.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.; Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936.

MARRIED: Charlotte Twachman, Dec. 16, 194]. cHmpREN: Peter Munro, Jr.. Jan. 1,
1943; David, July 30, 1948; Michael, May 10, 1951.
OCCUPATION: Account supervisor, Henderson Advertising Agency.

Account supervisor for the last five years with Henderson Advertising
Agency, Greenville, South Carolina. Prior: Lever Brothers, product
manager, three years, General Foods Corporation, product manager,
three years; J. Walter Thompson Company (advertising), nine years.
Served five years with U.S. Army — January, 1941, to January, 1944
captain, Armor with sth Armored Division (European Theatre).

Peter Munro, Jr., a junior at the University of South Carolina; David
at high school; Mike at elementary school.

RICHARD RUSSELL STANWOOD, JR. +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 423 West Ave., Wayne, Pa.

962 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ANTHONY STARUSKI

  
  

  
  

manmade

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 5 Morgan St., Springfield, Vt.

PREPARED AT: Hyde Park High School, Hyde Park, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEcREE: s.B., 1939(40) .

marrieD: Josephine V. LaCentra, April 5, 1942. cumpREeN: Joan Marie, Dec. 9,

1943; Robert Anthony, Sept. 10, 1946; Janet Geraldine, May 30, 1951; Cyn-
thia Lee, Nov. 9, 1958.

OCCUPATION: President — manager, Sno-White, Inc., laundry — linen supply.
MEMBER OF: Elks Club; Crown Point Country Club.

No change since the zoth Anniversary Report. I'm still operating my
laundry and linen supply business in Springfield, Vermont.

FOREST WALDEN STEARNS

OFFICE appRess: Lake States Forest Experiment Station, St. Paul Campus, Uni-
versity of Minnesota, St. Paul 1, Minn,

PREPARED AT: Shorewood High School, Shorewood, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEGREES: a.B., 1939; pH.m. (Univ. of Wisconsin),
1940; pH. (ibid.), 1947,

marriepD: Hope C. Hartley, May, 1943 (died September, 1953); Ruth M. Heitz,

August, 1956. cutipren: Carlin A., Jan. 21, 1944; Andrea B., April 19, 1945;
Jay H., Nov. 2, 1948; Timothy F., June 2, 1961,

occupation: Research in wildlife habitat for U.S, Forest Service, project leader
for Michigan, Minnesota, and Wisconsin,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 963

OFFICES HELD: Botanical Editor, Ecology, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Ecological Society of America, Botanical Society of America, Society
of Economic Botany, Sigma Xi, Wildlife Society, American Association of
University Professors, Nature Conservancy, American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science Fellow, Minnesota and Wisconsin Academies of Science,
Boy Scouts of America, White Bear Unitarian Church.

PUBLICATIONS: Approximately forty-five, including: “Ninety years change in a
northern hardwood forest in Wisconsin,” 1949; “The composition of the sugar
maple-hemlock-yellow birch association in northern Wisconsin,” 1951; “Teat-
book of intermediate plant science” (joint authorship), 1953; “Interactions of
photo-period and temperature affecting seed germination” in Tsuga canadensis
(with J. Olson), 1958; “Correlations between soil-moisture depletion, solar
radiation and other factors” (with C. Carlson), 1960.

Accounting for twenty-five years, I find a chastening experience.
Some of you may remember too how an active two-year-old son simph-
fies chores such as writing; he eliminates them.

In the fall of 1939, 1 began work at the University of Wisconsin
under Norman Fassett, a Harvard graduate and student of M. L. Fernald
of the Gray Herbarium. At the time Fassett was working on his Manual
of Aquatic Plants, and it seemed only natural for me to write my Master's
thesis on the distribution of the submerged aquatics. Working for Fas-
sett was a stimulating experience, although somewhat unnerving for a
young graduate student. Despite his biting criticism, Fassett had a deep
personal interest in each of his students; and I had many pleasant Visits
with him after leaving Wisconsin. For several years 1 continued under
Fassett but shifted my interests from taxonomy to the young field of
forest ecology. At the same time I taught undergraduate botany and
learned much from the superb staff then at Wisconsin. In 1942 1 be-
came clear that other matters had priority, and I enlisted in the Air
Force. After a short hitch in the medics as a private, 1 attended a
schoo] at Yale and graduated as an Air Force photographic othcer.

Release from active duty in April, 1946, seemed a good time for a
change, and | shifted both major professors and thesis problems (with
the blessing of all concerned). Field work for my thesis kept me in the
woods both weekends and Sundays, That winter we lived in Badger Vil-
lage and commuted seventy miles each day with other married graduate

students. The year’s work under John Curtis paid off and in July, 1947, 1
completed requirements for a Ph.D. in botany with a thesis in forest
ecology.

The next step took me to Purdue University where in the autumn ft
began teaching general botany and related subjects. There the years
begin to blend together, the intermediate years of chickenpox, great
decisions (house buying, etc.), and gradual growth, Tine went rapidly
with research and teaching occupying all mv davs and many nights
Good teaching was and still 1s a challenge requiring effort and E tear
that many large universities pay little attention to it.

After several years in faculty housing (converted barracks) we built
our first house and settled into the academic milicu. The death of mys
wife several years later changed the course of events. TE spent seme tine
as a resident faculty advisor in men’s housing units where FE ganwd
valuable experience but never had quite enough sleep. During thes
period, I spent a sabbatical semester at the Connecneut Agnenleural
Experiment Station in New Haven. The sabbatical proved boeh pleaser

964 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

and profitable and included several visits to Cambridge, my only oppor-
tunity in twenty-five years.

One memorable event was a winter visit with Hugh Raup at the
Harvard Forest. In 1939 Dr. Raup had started me into ecology as a
senior problems student, albeit our association was brief since I was
recovering from an appendectomy and he left me in May for Great Slave
Lake. I wholeheartedly recommend the Harvard Forest as a place in
which to be snowed in. This visit reminded me of a memorable
Thanksgiving with the Shapley family at the old observatory.

With changes in departmental organization, Purdue became less attrac-
tive and seemed to draw even farther toward the restricted outlook of
engineering and the applied sciences. In 1956 I had the good fortune to
marry again, and in 1957 we accepted the challenge of a project with
the U.S. Forest Service in Mississippi. This was a challenge not only
for me but for the family who had to adapt to an entirely different
atmosphere. Mississippi proved an intriguing state to visit and study,
but no place to educate teen-age children. After four years the project
came to an end and we gladly accepted a move back north. We are
now in St. Paul where I am engaged in wildlife habitat research for the
Lake States Forest Experiment Station. Although there are deer within
the city limits and pheasants feed on my doorstep, there is no opportunity
to do habitat research close by, and my work takes me into Michigan
and Wisconsin and Northern Minnesota. The beauty of this country,
despite long winters and limited resources, makes most travel a pleasure.

The years have been filled with activity, P-T.A., Boy Scouts, etc., and
some accomplishment in research. At present, as a full-time sideline, ]
am serving as Botanical Editor of Ecology, a research journal published
by the Ecological Society of America, This has proved to be a fascinat-.
ing, demanding, and all consuming task; but it offers great opportunity :
for service. Scientific editing is anything but thankless as many letters
testify; however, it is not remunerative.

As for the future, I see no easy path ahead; we must have the wisdom
to accept the need for change, Certainly, the democratic way of life is
not an easy one.

DAVID SACHS STERN

    

  
  

NTT

2 ne EE IMET T

PS 4 % gR «3
a “ o wo a 4
iy a n a ‘. a ¢ 4

HOME apprEss: 3596 Main Hwy., Miami, Fla. 33133,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT gh

OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 8181, Coral Gables 46, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Milwaukee Country Day School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEcREES: §.B., 1939; Lup., 1942147); Law. (New
York Univ.), 1949; pocror EN CIENCIAS ¥ DER. PUB. (Univ. of Havana), 1957;
s.3.D. (New York Univ.), 1960.

MARRIED: Martina Preciado, Aug. 13, 1940. cHitpREN: David Preciado, Aug. 26,
1940 (adopted) ; Johanna, June 8, 1944 (died Jan. 25, 1950); Mary Elizabeth,
Jan. 4, 1951; Robert Charles, Jan. 13, 1953; William, April 25, 1954 (died
April 25, 1954) ; Annamarie, Dec. 18, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Professor of law, University of Miami fon leave 1963-64, as area
studies coordinator, Peace Corps Training Program, University of W ashing-
ton, Seattle, Wash.).

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive council, Inter-American Bar Association, 19%6-
61; Committee on Foreign Exchange of Teachers and Students, Acsociation
of American Law Schools; minor offices in professional associations such as
American Bar Association; Section on International and Comparative Law,
American Society of International Law; Florida Bar Association.

MEMBER OF: A.A.U.P.; Florida bar; Episcopal Family and Children’s Service
Bureau, Diocese of Southern Florida; Panamanian Academy of Internatmnal
Law.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous law review articles and book reviews.

Perhaps it will not be hard to understand why at the moment I am
writing this at a desk looking out at the real majesty of Mount Rainier
which has just appeared from the haze of late afternoon. I have taken
leave from my normal work to train my second group of Peace Corps
people — these to go to do public health work in Bolivia; the first from
this summer already stationed in the troubled Dominican Republic.

My life since college has been much involved with Latin America.
Marriage to a wonderful Mexican girl and more than ten years of hte
south of the border. It has, at a much lower level of course, been too a
history of constant struggle with the establishment to realize more in
terms of inter-American relations as described at his lofty level by Milton
Eisenhower in The Bitter Wine. My teaching has taken me to more than
twenty-five faculties of law in Latin America (every country except
Paraguay, and in most of them I have lectured, consulted, or done re-
search work) and several in Europe.

I have fought in professional organizations for greater realization of
our strengths and correction of weaknesses in our Latin policy. This in-
cluded support of the Cuban revolution from 1953 and working with the
University of Havana to reform higher education until the freeze went
on the end of 1960. Through all the vears, until the same vear, P headed
the Inter-American Legal Studies Program at the Univerity of Miama
which I was called to start in 1950, having finished my graduate work in
comparative law at New York University.

Little by little the University of Miami has shifted direction in its in-
ternational work until now I find it more rewarding to be at the Une-
versity of Washington. I feel that, although it involves only a wall
part of my technical training, this is the thing to be doing at the moment
Weare fast losing what we have left of a chance to create a berter workd
in our hemisphere. What little chance there is for us not eventually eo
be excluded from it may well rest on that kind of mobilization of the
old missionary spirit which the Peace Corps represents. Hlenee tiv be:
ing here looking at that great mountain sheltering its city, son prcal of we
many great citics in Latin America.

966 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

On the family side, we have had a difficult but basically very happy
life. We have lost two children, one fair grown, but our others are good,
very good children. This is especially true of the littlest of them all,
Annamarie, our old age baby born at a time when I guess most of my
classmates will be reveling in grandchildren. What more can one say
but that the quarter century has flown all too fast and that it is getting
hard to realize that one is now the creeping antique, almost ready to be
set Out to pasture, that as an undergraduate we thought those returning
alums of the twenty-five-year classes were.

Although I have been a better Harvard Law man than a College man,
I have been lucky to have spent much time in Cambridge and to have
kept close to many of the members of the faculty (that is, many of the
few who still survive from the years before World War II) and I look
forward with pleasure as always to the results as they come in, especially
the survey, even though I will probably miss the Reunion as I imagine

it will be my luck to be serving far overseas at that time — or something
like that,

 

HOME appreEss: 709 E. Carlisle Ave., Milwaukee 17, Wis.

oFrice appress: 710 N. Plankinton Ave., Milwaukee 3, Wis.

PREPARED AT: Riverside High School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; LL.B. 1942.

MaRRIeD: Hilda T. Gennet, Jan. 20, 1944. cHitpREN: David Gennet, Aug. 12, 1946;
Yta Linda, April 10, 1949; Deborah Ann, July 10, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Attorney; secretary of electrical supply company; vice-president,
chemical manufacturing company; secretary and property manager, real
estate company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Great Lakes Biochemical Company,
Inc.; secretary and director, Standard Electric Supply Company, Henmor,
Inc.; director, Midwest Swimming Pool Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Wisconsin; Harvard Law School Association;
American and Milwaukee Bar Associations; State Bar of Wisconsin; Nationa
Swimming Pool Institute; Midwest Swimming Pool Association; Milwaukee
County Council; Boy Scouts of America; Parc-Wood Country Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in professional and trade journals,

I think that I have always known that when the Twenty-fifth rolled
around I would have to assemble my scattered thoughts and pull them

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 947

together for the Report. After graduation I attended the Harvard Law

School as the war clouds rolled in, but I managed to graduate in June

of 1942 and a week later I enlisted in the Army. [ served both as an

enlisted man and as a junior officer in the Signal Corps, both in the

Aleutians and in Europe, and was finally discharged, still in one Piece, in

the spring of 1946.

Along the way, and through the courtesy of one of mv law school
roommates whose mother introduced us, I married Hilda at Camp
Crowder, Missouri, in January, 1944. Upon my discharge from the
Army, and after a never-to-be-forgotten 11,00-mile auto trip around
the country, we returned to Milwaukee. I began practising law with
my father’s firm and since his death, almost five years ago, | have had
my own little firm, engaged in the general practice. In addition, | have
been busy with various family enterprises, as an officer, director and
legal adviser. I have also been called upon to manage various little par-
cels of family real estate and have done some professional trust Manaye-
ment.

In 1956, my brother, a Ph.D. in microbiology, and [I started a little
enterprise for the manufacture of water treatment chemicals, evpecially
algicides, for swimming pools, ponds, lagoons, water cooling towers and
such. The business has prospered beyond our fondest expectations and
has developed an international roster of customers. The business has
given me a wonderful opportunity to travel and has enabled me to mect
with and speak to various trade associations and groups throughout the
country. It has also served to broaden my economic base and make the
practice of law more interesting and varied.

For reasons somehow connected with the fact that I have a seventeen-
year-old son, I have become a devotee of sports car rallies and find ther
both time-consuming and a great deal of fun. Golf in the summer, we
skating in the winter and swimming whenever possible complete my sport
activities along with a nightly walk with my “friend,” our Labrador,
Cocoa.

Hobbies are neither exciting nor varied. I spend a good deal of time
reading, particularly history and biography, and working with my stamp
collection of British America colomes. An occasional game of bridge,
a continuing interest in the Boy Scouts and some minor activity with the
Harvard Club and religious affairs, coupled with an interest in the Braves
and Packers, complete the routine.

Harvard, both college and law school, means pleasant memorics whieh,
the Admissions Board willing, my son will share starting in ty. By and
large, however, I wonder if college today is as satsfying an expericm €
as It was in the thirties. Harvard strikes me, as ether univenaties, as Get
strident, too hectic, too hurried today. The emphasis apparently land on
grades and on class rank (shades of the Law School) saddens me. ft
seems to preclude, or at least to minimize, the things that go to make a
man from a youth: enjoyment of the company of one's fellow studvars
the pleasure of female companionship in a non-academie surrounding,
occasional loafing in the sun on the bank of the Charles. Can't a fellos

still stroll through the Yard with a girl of shoot the breese with a glace
mate? Must we run? Life, it seems to me, should be savored. net
bolted, should be tasted, not swallowed in one hump!

968 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

DAVID SPINK STEVENS

STEIEE

    

   

 

Sa Mei TEx all ate tio ceac Tsaa

at A iba sh

HOME appress: 8605 Fenway Drive, Bethesda, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1735 DeSales St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20036.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: S.B., 1939; LL.B., cum laude, 1942.

MARRIED: Rosemary Burton, March 11, 1950. cuitpReN: Michael S., Dec. 22, 1952;
Michelle S., March 23, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Attorney; partner in McKenna & Wilkinson, specializing in radio
and television law.
MEMBER OF: Congressional Country Club of Bethesda, Md.

After being graduated from college, I went on to the Harvard Law
School. I was fortunate in being able to stave off the draft long enough
to be graduated and to pass the New Hampshire bar examination. In
August, 1942, I was inducted and assigned to the Army Air Corps. The
Air Corps, apparently having no need for fledgling lawyers, decided
after my basic training that I should continue my education and sent
me in succession to Sioux Falls Radio School, to Air Communications
Cadet School, which for a time required my residence, God forbid,
on the Yale campus, to Boca Raton Radar School and, thereafter, for
a brief period to a special school for prospective instructors at Boca
Raton. It was later decided that all instructors at Boca Raton would be
civilians and accordingly 1 was assigned as radar officer, first to the 412th
Fighter Squadron and later to the 373d Fighter Group of which the
4i2th was a part. Neither the group nor the squadrons comprising it
had any radar and I, therefore, performed other duties such as assist-
ant communications officer, PX officer, trial judge advocate for the
special court martial, claims officer and the like. After fourteen months’
service overseas in the European Theatre it was my good fortune to be
dispatched to the Pacific Theatre via the United States and my journey
was terminated in the latter by the atom bomb and V-J Day.

Thinking that 1 could somehow combine my law school and Air
Corps technical training I applied for a position with the Federal Com-
munications Commission, I was employed there for approximately
seven years in various capacities in the broadcast division of the legal
department and, after reorganization, in the Broadcast Bureau as chief
of the new and changed aural facilities branch of the Broadcast Bureau.

In 1953 I resigned from the commission to enter private practice

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 969

with the firm of McKenna & Wilkinson, specializing in television and
radio law, in whose vineyard I have been laboring since.

RIGGS TAYLOR STEWART

LE RESET ET 5

  
   

   

HOME ADDRESS: 1351 Marlborough Ave., Plainfield, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Air Reduction Co., Inc., Murray Hill, N-.J.

PREPARED AT: Cranford High School, Cranford, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: s.B., 1939; tLe. (New York Univ.), 1945.

MARRIED: Elizabeth S. Hurst, June 12, 1941. cuttpRen: Margaret T., June 24, 1443;
James P., May 31, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Patent counsel, Air Reduction Chemical & Carbide Company.
MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; New Jersey Patent Law Association.

CALVIN WHITNEY STILLMAN

   

   

oh a Se

HOME ADDRESS: 1170 Fifth Ave., New York 29, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 E. 42d St., New York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1939, DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1939; aM. tlowa State
Coll.), 1941; pu.p. (Univ. of Chicago), 1950.

MARRIED: Helen Leigh, June 17, 1939 (divoreed 1963): Emily Calloway Gerda,

June 1, 1963, cHivpREN: Melissa Gordon, December, I9k4;, Sally Gordon,
April, 1953 (stepchildren).

OCCUPATION: Teacher; member of faculty, New School for Social Reerarch, New
York City.

970 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

OFFICES HELD: Member of board, Chicago Institute for Psychoanalysis, 1953-62,
Library for International Relations, Chicago, 1953-58.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Economic Association;
American Anthropological Association; African Studies Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Africa in the Modern World, Univ. of Chicago Press, 1955;
various articles in professional journals.

This form comes too soon.

I remember my father’s Twenty-fifth, and the emotional associations
with it. I gained the feeling that a Twenty-fifth was something very
old men went to, just before departing this world. I don’t feel anything
like as old as I thought my father was in 1933! I feel in midstream, not at
the end of anything. It seems pointless to give anvone a summary of
what I’ve been up to— but since the form is here, P'll do my best.

College seems a very long time ago, so in a way, this form comes too
late. I'll still do my best. I see friends from college days almost not at
all, and then only because of other interests. My greatest pleasure in
recent years was Thanksgiving dinner in Bangkok, Thailand, with our
classmate Ambassador.

I went west after being married and graduating, and returned only last
year to the east coast. The western sojourn began with Iowa State
College, where I earned a Master's degree after tremendous effort. The
contrast with the East was itself worth two years in college. Then on to
the University of Chicago, the quiet life of graduate study which has
been unknown since the war.

I was drafted in June, 1942, lived through four months at Jefferson
Barracks as a private (my greatest wartime accomplishment), went on to
Link Trainer School, and Anti-aircraft OCS. There followed a long,
hot summer as a battery officer in Georgia, then transfer to Military
Government schools at Fort Custer and Harvard, and two years in
Europe; five battle stars and eventual promotion to captain.

Return to graduate study was hard, after all this excitement. I did
finish up a doctorate, working here and there in the process, and for
five years taught in the undergraduate program at the University of
Chicago. This was the high point of my creative life.

In 1957 my wife and I set out to travel a bit, and this extended into
nearly five years of full-time wandering, nearly all in Asia and Africa.
At the end, I felt that at last I knew something of the topics I used to
teach.

Recent developments have been divorce and remarriage, the acquisi-
tion of two instant daughters, aged ten and nineteen.

I’ve thought a lot about Harvard over the years, and though my
contacts with my class have been virtually nil, my respect for the insti-
tution has been tremendous. I get back now and then for meetings of a
Visiting Committee which supervises the one field in which I have never

taken a course. This in itself is proof of some sort of breadth in the
grand old institution,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 97%

PETER LEWIS STONE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6214 Seventh Ave., Kenosha, Wis. 53140.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Matthew’s Church, Kenosha, Wis. 53140.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. pEcREES: s.B., 1939(38); Bo. (Virginia Theological
Sem.), 1959.

MARRIED: Eliza Sergeant Disston, Sept. 7, 1940. cHitpREN: David Lewis, March 2,
1942; Andrew Disston, Dec. 28, 1943; Margaretta Dixon, July ©. 191e;
Douglas Bowditch, April 24, 1949.

HARVARD SON: David Lewis Stone, ’64.

occuPATION: Priest of Episcopal Church.

OFFICES HELD: Rector, St. John’s Church, Essex, Conn., July. 1959, te Octaber,
1963, St. Matthew’s Church, Kenosha, Wis., since November 1, 1063; prea
dent, A.D. Cardwell Company, Plainville, Conn. 1954-567 executive vice press
dent and vice-president, Ludlow Manufacturing & Sales Company. 19h} St:
production manager, Harrisburg Machine Corperation, 1941-43; materiale
engineer, ‘Sperry Gyroscope Company, Inc., 1939-41; metallurgist. Crucible
Steel Company, February—September, 1939.

After leaving college I took a year of graduate work in metallurgy at
arnegie Tech. Before getting my Master’s degree T took a job as a
etallurgist with Crucible Steel Company in Pitsburgh, There followed
eries of jobs in metals engineering, production engineering, and finally
management with what is now the Ludlow Corporation in Boston. Por
: next twelve years I traveled widely over the world with considerable
e spent in India, Pakistan and the United Kingdom. Ulefe Lanttou Hy
4 and became president of Allen D, Cardwell Company, an electrons ¢
ipany specializing in upper air measurement devices. This compasy

been in extreme difficulty duc to a series of ruinous fived prae ate.
pment contracts with various branches of the Armed Porces. Lh
way I can describe this period is to sav that Enever learned wtsye be
put I learned a lot of what not to do. ,
ring this period, thanks to my wife, T became interes daa ge,
opal Church and in March. ig56, felt strongly enorey ny ay |

rt studying for the priesthood. .
otally new phase of my life began on going to Virgeua pho
ary in Alenandria. There Was the somewhat tranny ga
ving to learn to study avain, particularly as Dhaba gg.
s that I studiously avoided in college, such asda rye

Mh og oe

bow

972 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

and history. However, the three years at seminary, including three
months’ clinical training in a federal penitentiary, were memorable ones.
On graduation the Bishop assigned me to a parish in Essex, Connecticut,
It was a tremendous experience in “being used” to help people after
nineteen years of “using” people. After spending four years there, |
have just now been called to St. Matthew's, Kenosha, Wisconsin (the
home of the Rambler). It is too early to make any comments about my
ministry here except that it is good to be back in an industrial environ-
ment.

My change in vocation has had a somewhat drastic effect on my fam-
ily’s way of life. After having received a more than adequate compensa-
tion in business, we found at first hand that the ministry is hardly over-
paid. However, none of us have suffered and all have been challenged
to decide what is the real meaning of our life.

* ANDERSON STOREY

 

porn: Aug. 1, 1917, Marion, Mass. parents: Charles Moorfield Storey, 712, Susan
Sweetser.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1936, 1937-1938,
prep: Killed in action, Jan. 17~18, 1943, over Germany.

Anderson Storey worked in the New York office of Pacific Mills
before enlisting in the Royal Canadian Air Force in the fall of 1940.
Following his training he was made a sergeant and received his wings
in July, 1941. He went to England as assistant pilot and later pilot of a
Wellington and then a Lancaster heavy bomber. He flew thirty mis-
sions and was on a mission to Berlin when his plane was shot down

and all on board were killed. Just before his death he was promoted to
pilot officer. He was survived by his parents,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 973

MAURICE JOHN STOUGHTON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 7051 Rockland Drive, Newell, N.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Charlotte College, Charlotte, N.C.

PREPARED AT: Whitman High School, Whitman, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., 1939; s.m. (Princeton Univ.), 1947,

MARRIED: Helen Sawicki, September, 1946. CHILDREN: Neal, May 15, 1954; Jeanne,
May 27, 1956.

occuPaTION: Associate professor of electrical engineering.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, ASEE, Charlotte College, 1963.

MEMBER OF: IEEE; Association of Computing Machinery; ASEE.

DAVID BEECHER STOWE

 

HOME ADDRESS: Lambert Road, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Moody’s Investors Service, 99 Church St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938.

MARRIED: Edith daCosta Andrade, Oct. 4, 1947. cHILpReN: Charles, July TR, 1989,
Richard, April 2, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Investment counsel.

MEMBER OF: Woodway Country Club, Darien, Conn.; Harvard Club ef New
York; Down Town Association, New York City.

Flew TBF’s and TBM'’s in World War Il for Navy and voras far as
bombing the Biminis Islands before the war ended. Married in tog?

_—

974 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Have two sons and have worked for Moody’s Investors Service the past
twelve years,

A registered Republican, 1 vote as an independent, seldom (if ever)
completely satisfied with either party.

COLLES COE STOWELL

   

HOME ADDRESS: 726 Gov. Nicholls St., New Orleans, La.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1613 National Bank of Commerce Bldg., New Orleans, La.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Divorced 1962.

occupaTION: Oil and gas consultant.
MEMBER OF: Usual professional clubs and societies.

The years in my chosen vocation have been ever varied and interest-
ing as a game. The game, called the oil business, is played according
to a set of rules, to wit: (1) find it, (2) make sure you own It, (3) get
it to the surface, (4) sell the oil, (5) sell the gas, (6) haggle with FPC,
(7) haggle with IRS, (8) make FPC refunds, (9) repay the bank, and
(10) don’t try to bribe any congressmen. In the last few years, as a
consultant, 1 have concentrated on a sizeable project—a try for the
brass ring —the outcome of which may be imminent. ;

Although I cannot count my God-children, 1 am progenyless until
now. I regard this sad thing as by no means a terminal status, and will
ever aspire to the marvelous standards of my productive classmates.
Events of the space age appear to vary between incredibly good and
incredibly bad. The common denominator is that they happen with

constantly increasing acceleration. 1 don’t see how fortune could have
placed our life spans in a more amazing time.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 975

 

GARDNER NICHOLS STRATTON

fog Meme pepe nine ey

    

HOME ApDpRESsS: 10 Lancaster Rd., Needham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stratton & Stratton, 892 Worcester St., Wellesley Hills, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.B.. 1942.

MARRIED: Dorothy Mathews, June 9, 1950. cHitpREN: Christina Mathews. Oct. 9,
1951; Constance Newman, June 6, 1953; Gardner Nichols, Jan. 27, 1955.

occupaTion: Attorney — insurance adjuster.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Town of Needham Land Acquisition Committee, Rotary
Club of Wellesley; treasurer, Association of Independent Insurance Adjusters
of Massachusetts, Broadmeadow PIC; colonel, Air Force Reserve (Ret.).

MEMBER OF: American, Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associations; National
Association of Independent Insurance Adjusters: Association of Independent
Insurance Adjusters of Massachusetts; Rotary Club of Wellesley; Longwood
Covered Courts.

After attending the Harvard Law School and passing the Massachu-
setts bar examination in January, 1942, 1 enlisted in the U.S. Army. Basic
training, a radio operator and mechanics course, Ofhcers Candidate
School and a second lieutenant’s commission followed. Air Ineclligence
school led to three years of intelligence activities overseas, starting in
Africa, then Sardinia, Corsica, France and ending up in Berlin.

In 1946 I returned to join my father, George Francis Stratton, Phare
vard ’13, as Stratton & Stratton, insurance adjusters and attorneys for
the insurance companies.

Dorothy and I had just been married (smartest thing IT ever did) when
I was recalled to active duty at the tme of the Korean “police acuon.” |
served as chief, Intelligence Management Division on General Curtis Le-
May’s staff at Headquarters, Strategic Air Command — fortunately,
again, a most interesting assignment.

In 1953 I returned to Stratton & Stratton. My work is very stunulat-
ing, being both varied and controversial, The passing vears (and how
fast they pass) have brought increasing activity in’ profesional and
community affairs.

My primary interests are my lovely wife, three active and fascinating
children, my work, community activities, a beautiful summer plaice in
Jaffrey, New Hampshire, and tennis all year round.

976 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

SINCLAIR PATON STRAYER

   

HOME ADDRESS: 211 Clematis St., Pensacola, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Regis Paper Co., Pensacola, Fla.
PREPARED AT: Leominster High School, Leominster, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

marrieD: Thelma H. Oxford, June 11, 1944. cHitpren: Gregory P., Sept. 2, 1946;
Daniel W., Sept. 19, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Supervisor in manufacture of wood pulp for papermaking, St. Regis
Paper Company.

MEMBER OF: Paper Industry Management Association; Technical Association of
Pulp and Paper Industry; Industrial Management Association.

I was hired by the duPont Company in 1939 as a chemist in their
High Explosive Division, Spent about a year in Gibbstown, New Jersey,
as a works chemist. Was then transferred in 1940 to the duPont High
Explosives plant at DuPont, Washington, which is near Tacoma. I
worked for the duPont Company most of the war years as a powder
chemist and supervisor.

I joined the St. Regis Paper Company in 1946 as assistant chief chemist
at the Tacoma location. A couple of years earlier Thelma and I were
married, We spent about twenty years in the Puget Sound country of
Western Washington before I was transferred to Pensacola, Florida, by
St. Regis. |

Western Washington is tremendous and beautiful. When the weather
was willing we could see the snow-capped peaks of Mt. Rainier from
our kitchen window. My wife and I have hunted and fished this
country with great enthusiasm, if with limited success. Providing that
we can afford it, we plan to spend the summers of our retirement years
in this area.

Pensacola is a cosmopolitan little city, with a fair share of Yankees
and Navy people. It is not representative of the South, as a few miles’
drive into rural Alabama or Georgia would soon convince one. Yankees
seem to be tolerated in Pensacola, probably since they are good tax-
payers. The Confederate flag, however, still flies.

Although I was brought up in a Republican atmosphere, I am an
inveterate switch voter. However, in the South, one is disenfranchised
in regional politics if he is not a registered Democrat.

I have always been a Unitarian by conviction, but Unitarian churches

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 977

are scarce in the West and South, I infrequently attend a local Metho-
dist church with the rest of the family.

Florida, in spite of manifold tourist traps, can be fascinating to a
New Englander. The bone-white sands of the Gulf beaches and the
adjacent blue waters of absolute clarity have reinforced our interest in
fishing and boating.

Our family has actually “grown up” in Florida. We have two fine
sons somewhat taller than [ am, if not smarter. Both of them are
attending Pensacola High School. Gregory, a senior, is a “B” student,
an avid and competent golfer and an applicant for admission to the
University of Florida. Daniel, a freshman, is a musician, budding sci-
entist and dilettante.

My wife is an enthusiastic bowler who very seldom lets me win. She
is a registered nurse and a good wife and mother.

My career has been interesting and reasonably rewarding. Whatever
material success I may enjoy is probably due to a sound education in
chemistry and some ability in managing.

In my narrow field of endeavor I have encountered a mere handful
of Harvardmen. The experience was not always as exhilarating as I
might have wished. My associates seem to have “forgiven” me for being
a Harvardman, and I have forgiven them for being otherwise. I would
not want to have missed a minute of Harvard.

ROBERT EDWARD LEE STRIDER, I

    

HOME ApprEss: Mayflower Hill, Waterville, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Colby College, Waterville, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Linsly Institute, Wheeling, W. Va.: Episcopal High Scheel, Alew
andria, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, prcREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; aw, 194), Pree,

MARRIED: Helen M. Bell, Radcliffe “42, Sept. 9 1081, cranes: Mare Dbebred,

Oct. 22, 1943; Robert Edward Lee, 3d, Oct. 1, 1945; Wilham Beil, fog. 6
1950; Elizabeth Greer, April 14, 1953.

HARVARD SON: Robert Edward Lee Strider, 3d, ‘67.

OCCUPATION: Education; president, Colby College.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in English, Harvard University and Rack litle Cefl-g-,
1941-42; instructor and assistant professor, Enghsh Dept. Connecticut Cob

978 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

lege, 1946-57; dean of faculty, professor of English, 1957-60 i i
1960, Colby College. _ + President, since

MemBER OF: American Association of University Professors; Modern Language
Association; Milton Society of America; Renaissance Society; American

Society of Arts and Sciences; Union Club, Boston; University Club
Century Club, New York. ston; University Club and

puBLicaTions: Robert Greville, Lord Brooke, Harvard University Press, 1958.

During the summer after graduation I gave some consideration to
radio as a career, but by September had thought better of it and returned
to Harvard for graduate work in English. A career in teaching was not
by any means a settled choice at that stage, and yet I found myself
sufficiently drawn toward it to start on the road. By the spring of 1940
there was no longer doubt, and I continued these studies until Navy
duty in June, 1942, having meanwhile acquired an A.M., assisted James
B. Munn in the Literature of the Bible course and Hyder Rollins in the
Romantics course (appropriately enough at Radcliffe), and having got
the Ph.D. orals out of the way.

In September, 1941, Helen Bell, Radcliffe ’42, and I were married in
Christ Church, at the beginning of her senior year. Hyder Rollins’
course had nothing to do with this event, it should be noted (except to
provide us with some of the wherewithal). The real responsibility rests
on the close relationship that existed (and I trust still does) between the
Harvard Glee Club and the Radcliffe Choral Society.

My something less than four years in the Navy might just as appro-
priately have been pursued in civilian clothes, since, except for a couple
of months at Fort Schuyler, all my active duty was with Naval Com-
munications in Washington. Separation from the service in January, 1946,
saw me back in the Harvard Yard for a few months. I left Helen and
our, at that stage, two children in Arlington, Virginia, while I proctored
in Stoughton and later Wigglesworth, getting a doctoral dissertation
under way and reading and rereading as much English literature, history

and philosophy as there was time for.

We moved in September, 1946, to New London, Connecticut, where
I had been appointed instructor in English at Connecticut College. It is
an interesting institution and the English Department an unusually fine
one. We were to spend eleven satisfying years there. In the course of
that span we had our other two children. I finally finished the thesis in

1950 and eventually transformed it into a book. I fear this volume 1s

not of the slightest interest to anyone but seventeenth-century scholars

and I suppose it is hopelessly unreadable, but it was a satisfaction to get

it out of my system, wearisome as the project was. During these years I

was reasonably active in the Episcopal Church (and still am) in a num-

ber of capacities. Helen and I both worked for P.¥.A. and other com-
munity enterprises, and campaigned vigorously for Adlai Stevenson in

1952 and 1956. | served on the Democratic Town Committee and was

elected for a two-year term to the New London Board of Education. A

good lively decade it was.

In 1957 President J. Seelye Bixler of Colby College, whom many of us
remember as a distinguished professor at Harvard Divinity School while
we were in Cambridge, prevailed upon me to give college administration
a try. Because of the rewards and the special kinds of exhilaration that

rr

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT Yry
teaching brings, I had resisted the blandishinents of administration for a
good number of years. But Seclye Bixler convinced me, and Fb came ey
Colby that fall as dean of the Faculty and professor of Pnghish. In rege
President Bixler retired and I was elected to succeed him, and here we
have been, and very happily, ever since.

The rigors of a college presidency are many, but it is as exciting a
kind of work as there is. Colby, like all colleges now, is caught Lape ine
curriculum revision, faculty strengthening, plane dcvclopment, and ane.
cessant fund-raising, and for all of us involved in its program there xs
fascination and challenge. On the side lam, of course, Involved im 3 good
many professional commissions and so on, wwo that might be interesting
to my classmates are the presidency of the New F nyland Calleges Pand
the past couple of years, and the chairmanship for a four-vear tenn of the
Standing Committee on Institutions of Higher Fdueation of the New
England Association of Colleges and Secondary Schools,

Colby provides its president with a lovely home on the campus where
it is a pleasure to live in any season, and w here members of the Class of
1939 are always welcome. Two of our children are in college. Wary
finishing her junior year at Wheaton, young Bob his freshman Voear at
Harvard. Our other two, Bill and Betsy, are in local schools and stuf at
home. Helen and I try to continue the enterprise that orginally intro.
duced us to each other by singing in the Waterville Arca Commurnts
Chorus and generally keeping alive our musical propensities ina number
of other ways. We dig in the garden, we go on occasional fanuly vaca:
tion trips, we listen to records (sometimes with groups of studentsi, and
on a rare free evening we enjoy occasionally some reading aloud,
Faulkner being our favorite.

In politics we are, as we have been all along, liberal Demewraty (there
are more than you might think in Maine). Tean’t help berg opens,
within reason, about the future. There will always be the € ubas and the
Birminghams in any human socicty (theologically. as vou can we, Ean
on the side of Niebuhr and Barth). But Lam contident that the human
race will survive. And so, of course, will Hlarvard.

EDWARD MacDOWFEFLL STRINGHIAM +

 

LAST MAILING Aboaess; 140 BF. 2Hth St. New York. SOV Bain

980 HARVARD CLASS OF 1] 939

THEODORE MONROE STRONGIN

rer

  

orvice anoness: New York Times, New York 36, N.Y.

parpareo at: Cherry Lawn School, Darien, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937, pecres: A.B. (Bard Coll.), 1941.

manniep: Ruth Klein, Aug. 12, 1947 (died March 14, 1954). cHmpren: Deborah,
Jan. 9, 1949; Daniel Otto, April 8, 195].

occupation: Music reviewer; writer on the arts.

orrices HELD: Vice-president, Music Critics Association, 1960-62.

meunra op: American Newspaper Guild; Music Critics Association; Bennington
Composers Conference.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous newspaper and magazine articles.

After leaving Harvard in 1937, I spent a year out of college as a lab-
oratory assistant in a genetics research project at Columbia University.
Resumed college education at Bard in 1938, graduated with an A.B. in
1941. Meanwhile, | had switched my allegiance from science to music.

I was drafted into the Army immediately after graduation from col-
lege. Saw service in North Africa and Southern France and was dis-
charged as a captain in 1946. Then, a term at Juilliard School of Music
studying flute, then over to the graduate school of arts at Columbia to
study composition.

Meanwhile, marriage (in 1947) meant responsibilities, thus a job:
teaching music in a private school in Oyster Bay, the East Woods School.
In 1949, I started “stringing” for the New York Herald Tribune, averag-
ing about three concerts a week, though not a staff member. Taught and
reviewed at the same posts until 1954. After my wife died, I accepted a
job on the music staff of Bennington College. During one term of Ben-
nington, also taught at Dartmouth.

Then came an offer from the Chattanooga Times to undertake a new
sort of job for them and for me: to be in charge of coverage of all the
arts. 1 continued this through the winter of 1961, finding the ecological
view of the universe most fascinating as seen from a newspaper vantage
point. In April, 1961, I took the same sort of job with the Albany Knick-
erbocker News, an afternoon daily, and then in October, 1963, back to
a strictly musical existence, on the staff of the New York Times, and 1 am
now in the process of moving.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 98 t

HAROLD LE ROY STUBBS

  

  

HOME AbpbrREss: 355 S. Main St., Sharon, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mathematics Dept., Northeastern University, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Scarsdale High School, Scarsdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., 1939; a.m. (Columbia Univ.), 1946;
PH.D. (Boston Univ.), 1954.

maRRIED: Lucille Benedetti, Nov. 16. 1945. CHILDREN: Susan Lee, Oct. 23, 1946;
Deborah Ann, June 14, 1949.

occupaTION: Professor of mathematics, chairman of department, Northeastern
University.

MEMBER OF: Mathematical Association of America; Institute of Mathematical
Statistics; American Society for Engineering Education; Society of the Sigma
Xi; American Contract Bridge League; Sharon Tennis Club; Massapoag
Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: A few technical papers in scientific journals.

At graduation my intention was to teach secondary school math, but
failing to get such a position by September, I tried actuarial work as a
second choice. In two and a half years with the Metropolitan Life, |
was initiated into some of the mysteries of commutation columns and
claim liabilities.

Escaping from this with the aid of the draft board, I spent a few
weeks in basic training, then found myself back in New York studving
meteorology at N.Y.U. During most of the remaining war vears I was
a weather officer with the Fifth Air Force in Australia, New Guinea and
the Philippines. Being home on leave when the war ended, | promptly
put forth a marriage proposal and was fortunate enough to be accepted
since no other males were home yet.

The question of whether to continue in meteorology or return to ac-
tuarial work was resolved by accepting a math teaching position at
Northeastern University. In spite of occasional abortive plans to leave
that institution, I am still there, now as department chairman, Besides
teaching math during these eighteen years, I have participated in) some
research projects for the Air Force and have obrained a couple of ade.
tional degrees.

Meanwhile we acquired two wonderful daughters and followed the
customary migration to the suburbs. In Sharon since tose, eur lov al
recreation has included tennis, swimming, sailing and bridge, Campons
vacations beginning at Cape Cod have gradually become more evtensies,

982 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

culminating in a 1962 jaunt to Yellowstone, the Seattle Fair, Grand
Canyon, ete, My wife served for a time on the local school committee
with Tom Warkins, ’39, but later gave up civic activities to enroll in the
School of the Museum of Fine Arts, as a sculpture major. Having gradu-
ated last vear, she is now determined to drag us all to Italy shortly after
the Reunion to see whether this kid Michelangelo really has it. Both
daughters have varied interests and talents with no clear-cut specializa-
tion in view; the elder one plans to enter Northeastern next fall.
Convictions, political: still consider myself a liberal (Stevenson
Democrat) in spite of the advancing years. Am more than ever con-
vinced that friendly cooperation between the USA and USSR is pos-
sible, desirable, and necessary. (Consequently, I was very much opposed
to JFK's brinkmanship on Cuba; it could have been a very costly method
of demonstrating his “courage” to his misguided Republican hecklers.)
Convictions, religious: none.

SIDNEY SULKIN

meee ey

      

AHA

HOMME ADpRESS: 5012 Elsmere Pl., Bethesda, Md.

orrice appress: Changing Times Magazine, 1729 H St., N.W., Washington 6, D.C.

prePareD at: Publie Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS EN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., cum laude, 1939.

marniep: Naomi A. Levenson, Oct. 4 1950. cHitpRenN: Claudia D., Sept. 24, 1944
thy previous marriage); Jonathan Leigh, Nov. 1, 1951.

ocr mATION: Senior editor (covering education), Changing Times, The Kiplinger
Magazine.

meMBER OF: National Press Club; Education Writers Association; Harvard Club
of Washington,

PuBLicaTions: The Family Man, Robert B. Luce, Inc., 1962; Complete Planning
for College, McGraw-Hill, 1962; short stories in Kenyon Review, Southwest
Review. Quarterly Review of Literature and included in Best Short Stories
of 1948, O. Henry Memorial Award Stories; articles, book reviews, etc.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 9% 3

DAVID CHARLES SULLIVAN

re ang RRR CHR NEM TE MAIN Oye ate
a
: me |
7” ~
; - }
i ~ + |
fo ;
PO
Coo pe 4

 

A

PAD

HOME ADDRESS: 2333 Mandeville Canyon Rd., Los Angeles 49, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Litton Industries, Inc., Guidance and Control Systems Division,
5500 Canoga Ave., Woodland Hills, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; w.8.a., LOM.

MARRIED: Dorothea Agnes Feeney, Aug. 29, 194]. cHi~pREN: Edward James, April
9, 1943; Janet Gail, June 26, 1944; Martha, March 1, 1949; David Charles,
Jr., June 12, 1951; Peter Bernard, Aug. 7, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and director, New Markets Development.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Naval Engineers; Armed Forces Communica-
tions Electronics Association; Association of the U.S. Army; American Man-
agement Association; American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics:
National Aviation Club.

After essentially always living in the Boston area, and with onlv a few
short months till Reunion, we are in the midst of a move from Weston
to Los Angeles. This all comes as the result of a recent decision to leave
Raytheon after seventeen years to join forces with Litton. We are
excited about making the change and looking forward to discovering
the West.

After finishing business school there followed in short order a tling
at the soap business, marriage and a commission in the Navy. Served
in Washington for two years in ordnance procurement and fortwo Vans
additionally 1 in the ground side of Naval Aviation, w inding up mv service
in Saipan with the rank of lieutenant commander. Returning home fora
brief reunton with the soap business, I joined the Rav theon C "OEP ANY
where I was active in the area of defense marketing until this vear.

The children are growing up all too fast and scattering. Pdward is a
sophomore at Providence College, majoring in economies, Janet is tiniest.
ing up at Stephens College this year. Martha is a sophomore tn hish
school. David has just started junior high and Peter brings up the ent
of the line in the fourth grade.

The past tweny-five years have been busy and exciting ones tilled with
abundant blessings in the way of a wonderful wife, devored childecs,

good health and interesting work, My new career with a dvniinie ce:
pany in a new part of the land should provide a wonderful new cs
perience,

984. HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

* JAMES THOMAS SULLIVAN, JR.

 
 

BORN May 6, 1917, Allston, Mass. PARENTS: James Thomas Sullivan, 06, Mary
eahan.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Barbara Gordon.

DIED: Killed in action, June, 1943, in the North Atlantic.

While an undergraduate Sullivan did some part-time work for the
Boston Globe and in the fall of 1939 joined the editorial staff of the
Globe. He was editor of the real estate, travel and housing pages of the
Sunday Globe for two years before entering the service. In May, 1942,
he was commissioned an ensign in the Coast Guard and was promoted
- to lieutenant (j.g.) the following year. He died in action, in 1943, when
his ship, the Coast Guard Cutter Escanaba, was sunk by a German sub-
marine off the coast of Greenland. He was survived by his wife.

PHILIP JOSEPH SULLIVAN +

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 1955 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, Mass. 02140.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT O85

RICHARD HOWARD SULLIVAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 16865 S.W. Greenbriar Rd., Oswego. Oregon.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Reed College, 3203 S.E. Woodstock Blvd., Portland, Oregon.

PREPARED AT: Marietta High School, Marietta, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a... 190).

MARRIED: Jean Elizabeth Fox, Dec. 20, 1941. cHitpren: Barbara Lee, Aug. 15, 1945;
Mary Jean, Sept. 4, 1946; Richard Penn, May 1, 1949.

OccUPATION: President, Reed College.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee and member, Finance Committee, College Entrance Exam.
nation Board, since 1961; director and chairman, Finance Commitice, Americana
Council on Education, since 1961; elected policy-holders’ trustee, College
Retirement Equities Fund, since 1962; trustee, Oregon Craduate Center for
Education and Research, since 1963; chairman, Oregon Colleges Foundation,
1958-59; member, Advisory Committee on Course Content Improvement,

National Science Foundation, since 1961; director, Portland City Glu, 1¥ro-
62.

MEMBER OF: Portland City Club; University Club; Waverley Country Club; ACLU:
Phi Beta Kappa; Signet Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Educational articles in professional journals.

Early opportunities for administrative work at Harvard as chief proc.
tor and assistant dean, not long after graduation, trapped me, without
any struggle on my part, in educational administration. That kind of
career was in suspension for three and one-half vears of duty as a Navy
intelligence officer. The most satisfying part of that experience, after
several years of seeing Army-Navy rivalries in W ashington, was wrvee
for the last year of the war in a thoroughly integrated jome operation of
both services at Pearl Harbor.

On January 1, 1946, I joined the staff of the College Entrance EF vamine-
tion Board in Princeton, which remained our home community for a
decade. In two years we created by merger Fducational Pesing Serv.
ice, which I served as executive vice-president and treasurer from tues
until September, 1956. I was able to take some direct part in planning
new programs for law school and medical school adimeaonsy, the NROEG
scholarship program, Selective Service Qualifying Vest, and the lke, as
well as to have a heavy share in the management and planning of a tapedlly
growing educational organization.

By the middle of the decade, however, I felt a perwmnal need to reverts
to concentration upon the affairs of a single insurunon, te work direc ety
with faculty and students on a college campus, [| was elected presutene

986 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

of Reed College, and we have been living in Portland, Oregon, a little
over seven years. Reed has a nearly unique program, draws its students
from all over the country, has a constant shortage of funds relative to its
aspirations, and retains an unusual vitality. We have only a small admin-
istrative staff, and I have the satisfaction of working directly with the
faculty in all kinds of ways that would not be possible in a larger or more
complex college. One of our friends in Congress sometimes refers to
Harvard as the “Reed of the East,” doing no justice to either, but it’s a
pleasing phrase.

Our three children are in college or are headed for it. Each is exceed-
ingly different from the others, and variety at home matches variety on
the job. All of us love the mountains and forests, rivers, lakes and ocean
beaches of Oregon and only wish that a demanding set of responsibili-

tics left us more time and energy to enjoy this beautiful country.

JOSEPH SCHONTHAL SUMMER +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 273 S, Dawson Ave., Columbus 9, Ohio.

LORING TIFFANY SWAIM, JR.

Lom Nya,

| 5
oan)

J
y

y
one og

Tee greens meme nn: manage

Se AOS he a See TR ag rid

——io
=
"

Eh
at

ME ADDRESS: Wood Lane, Groton, Mass.
“ICE ADDRESS: Lowell Sun, 15 Kearney Sq., Lowell, Mass.

parep aT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT ys

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., 1939.
MARRIED: Eleanor Purdy, Dec. 16, 1948. cHiLp: Loring Tiffany. 341.
occupaTION: Newspaperman — political, editorial and feature writer, Lowell Sun.

After twenty-three peripatetic years — traveling in some twenty-four
countries and living much of the time in a suitcase —I have come full
circle and finally returned to New England.

Those years saw the outbreak of the hot war (World War H) which
was predicted while we were still at college, and the cold war abour
which few had any advance knowledge. The first struggle we won de-
cisively; the second, far from won, continues to dominate more than
half our national budget and at least as much of our national atrentien.

Where democracy stands in this struggle interested me greatly. In
the years following graduation, working with a private organization of
people of many nationalities, I spent five years in Europe — ‘mostly West
Germany, Great Britain and Switzerland; later, many months in the
Philippines, Formosa, Japan and Southeast Asia including India. More
recently, I spent almost a year in Brazil.

To see America from beyond her shores and to watch her strugyle
to give leadership in the uncharted cold-war, seas has been a privilege.
We have learned much, and had much to learn. The outpouring of eur
means saved many nations from collapse. Where we were firm as a
nation, we gained ground and won the admiration of those who rely
on our power.

The world is still free today because we made common cause with
many nations in their efforts to meet the challenge of Communism on
one hand and to hold the line against materialism on the other. In Latin
America it is a battle yet to be won — or, in some instances, even waged.

Now as a newspaperman, this experience gives a useful perspective
on state and national affairs.

It is refreshing to return to New England and the environs of Boston,
My wife, Elie, has always been partial to this region, though she hails
from New York, and we were married in London. Now our cleven-
year-old son, Tiff, is enjoying it thoroughly.

In the intervening years, Harvard has changed, Boston has become

‘the New Boston,” and Massachusetts has made an Hypressive mark on
the nation. Despite the tragic death of our late President, New PE aglind

gives every indication it will continue in its political and scentine
service to America and the world.

988 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

MARSHALL WILBUR STEPHEN SWAN

roo wer see ¥
‘ :

      

s
‘
. ee

 

HoME Appress: 4230 Leland St., Chevy Chase 15, Md.

orrice appress: U.S, Information Agency, Washington 25, D.C.

prerarep AT: Milton High School, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. bEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; a.m, 1941; PHD,
1942.

marrivp: Constance Tocher, Aug. 10, 1940. cHILDREN: Geoffrey Marshall, April
13, 1945; Ingrid Constance. Dec. 14, 1946.

warvaro son: Geoffrey Marshall Swan, ’67.

ocerpation: Diplomat, Foreign Service.

ovrices net: Member of board, Harvard Glee Club (since its inception) 3; con-
ductor, Odikoen Singers, and member, Library Committee, Tufts University,
1912-46; curator, American Swedish Historical Museum, 1946-49; church.
warden and layreader, St. John and St. Philip’s, The Hague, 1952-55; vestry-
man, All Saints’, Milan, 1955-57; vestryman and layreader, St. Edmund’s,
Oslo, 1958-63: member of beard, Oslo Dramatic Society, 1959-62; member,
School Cemmittee, Oslo American School, 1961-63; variously board member
and chairman, U.S. Educational Foundation (Fulbright Commissions), The
Netherlands, Italy and Norway, 1951-63.

mewper oF: American Foreign Service Association; Sandy Bay Historical So-
ciety; American Swedish Historical Foundation; Swedish Pioneer Historical
Society; American Businessmen’s Club of Oslo; Norge Amerika Foreningen;
Cathedral Choral Society.

reauications: Editor, George North’s History of Swedland, Gotland Finland
(1501), American Scandinavian Studies; author of some forty articles in
learned journals on historical, literary, bibliographical and cultural subjects.

Having planned from childhood to be a teacher, I continued my
studies at Harvard following graduation and in June, 1942, was wel-
comed by President Conant into the ancient company of scholars. Then,
for four accelerated years, I taught English literature at Tufts, first as
an instructor and subsequently as an assistant professor. Concurrently, I
served as editorial consultant to the Office of Scientific Research and
Development, working at a number of military bases on Air Force, Army,
and Navy defense problems. In odd moments, I somehow managed to
pursue my passion for choral music, so roused by Doc and Woody, and
to carry through several projects in Anglo-Scandinavian and American-
Scandinavian cultural and historical relations,

Largely on the basis of these publications, in July, 1946, I was appointed
director-curator of the American Swedish Historical Foundation and
its museum in Philadelphia. For three stimulating years I broadened my

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT g89

experiences as an editor, research scholar, speaker, traveler, and public
exhibitionist (usually at svvorgasbords).

With the passage of the Smith-Mundt Act and the creation of an over-
seas informational and cultural service, I became a willing victim of one
of those sporadic federal raids on American educational foundations.
After some twenty months at the Department of State, I was sent abroad
for a two-year hitch as cultural attache at The Hague. Now, twelve
and a half years later, the Swan family have just returned to live in the
United States and to observe how our fellow countrymen practise at
home what we preach about them overseas. For the next three or four
years, I expect to help train future USIS officers.

During our foreign sojourn, we lived and labored in the Netherlands
1951-55), Italy (1955-58, with headquarters first in Milan and then at
Rome), and most recently in Norway (1958-63). Additionally, we
traveled some 80,000 miles through all the free countries of Europe from
Spitzbergen to Salamis and from Shannon to the Soviet frontier (includ-
ing two assignments in beleaguered Berlin). As a “teacher” I've shifted
from Shakespeare and Scandinavia to the Adamses and Americana. My
students are no longer found primarily in classrooms and lecture halls
but among editors, journalists, radio-TV commentators, labor leaders,
librarians, museum directors, professors and other educators. Like many
teachers in many countries, I suspect I have often learned more from my
pupils than [ve been able to impart to them.

Having been blessed with a happy marriage of more than twenty-three
years’ duration, I’ve a son now in his freshman year at Harvard and a
daughter in her first (and graduation) year at school in the United States.
Choral music, amateur dramatics, and church work have been my princi-
pal outside activities abroad, though I’ve managed to issue some 200-0dd
pages of a family history which occupies my spare ume whenever I have
any. For, like Thackeray, I enjoy riding on the back seat of the stage-
coach to see from whence I’ve come.

Despite Ban-the-Bombers and TV announcers, dise jockeys and fund
drivers, Communists and John Birchers — yes, and sometimes even diplo-
mats — I can still shout Amen to Miranda’s ery:

O wonder! "

How many goodly creatures there are here.
How beauteous mankind is. O brave new world,
That has such people in it!

990 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

SARL ERNEST SWARTSWELTER, JR.

 

HOME appress: 3769 Leafy Way, Coconut Grove, Fla.

OFFICE Appress; The First Management Co. Inc. 3769 Leafy Way, Coconut
Grove, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Rayen High School, Youngstown, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREE: S.B., 1939.

mankiep: Marjorie Miller, May 6, 1941 (divorced 1949) ; Layte T. Wheeler Arring-
ton, June 6, 1952. CHILDREN: Brian, May 14, 1942; Bruce and Sallie (twins),
April 16, 1946; Earl Ernest, 3d, April 14, 1953; W. B. Ward Arrington, Aug.
31, 1944; Anghelen W. Arrington, July 4, 1947,

occupation: Management consultant; president, The First Management Company,
Inc.

orFices HELD: Chairman, Finance Committee, Coconut Grove Slum Clearance,
since 1956: vice-president, Ware Laboratories, Miami, Fla., 1955-57; director,
YMCA. Miami, 1957-58; president, The First Management Company, Inc.,
since 1941; vice-president and general manager, Columbia Machinery, Hamil-
ton, Ohio, 1941-46; president, Ace Industries, Inc., 1946-54, Mahoning Hous-
ing. Inc,, 1950-52, General Extrusions, Inc., 1953-54, Davis Motor Sales, Inc.,
1952-54 Call Youngstown, Ohio): chairman and director, Riddle Airlines, Inc.,
Miami, 1961-62; chairman of board, Ideal Insurance Company, Ltd., Birming-
ham, England, since 1963.

MEMBER OF: ASME; ASTE: Harvard Club of Miami; Duquesne Club, Pittsburgh;
Coconut Grove Sailing Club; Choral Reef Yacht Club, Miami; Youngstown
(Ohio) Club; various British clubs,

PUBLICATIONS: Fifty-four patents.

Directly after graduation, 1 went to work for the Aetna-Standard
Engineering Company, at Youngstown, Ohio. The advent of war in
Europe put the company into the ordnance business, and myself as
assistant manager, ordnance division. In 1941, I became vice- president
and general manager of Columbia Machinery & Engineering Corpora-
tion at Hamilton, Ohio, taking a year’s leave of absence (1944-45) to
join Naval Ordnance Laboratory at While Oak, Maryland, as chief,
Mechanical Design, Scientific Division, perhaps the most interesting
assignment I’ve ever dealt with.

Returning to industry in 1946, I combined several assignments in tool
and die, die-casting machines and molds and also started The First
Management Company, Inc., of which I am still president. 1 formed
and was president of Ace Industries, Inc., an aluminum fabricator and
also of General Extrusions, Inc., its aluminum extrusion division. Also,
during this period | attempted, as a partner of Nelson Rockefeller’s, to

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT Opt
do something about low-cost rental housing, only to be blocked by local
politics in various cities. Hobbies did not change much fron my college
days. I played tennis, drove sports cars and flew and sailed whenever
possible — all of which T still do. As sort of side vocauons, TE have owned
foreign car agencies, operated airports and attempted to build airplanes
and boats.

My first marriage failed in 1949, and I remained a bachelor until tgs:
when I married Mrs, Layte Wheeler Arrington, acquiring two step.
children, and one of our own somewhat Jater. Since this mav well be
my only chance to proclaim this in print, she deserves the silver star
plus the air medal (with outboard motor attached) for putting up with
me for twelve good years.

Selling out most of my northern interests in 1954, we moved to
Florida where I have been active in this country and abroad as a
management consultant. I have had many interesting clients. having
served as a director to various airlines on both sides of the ocean as well
as a great variety of manufacturing companies. I was elected chairman,
the Ideal Insurance Company of Birmingham, England, a relatiwels
small, entirely British life company! I understand I am the only Ameri-
can to hold such an office — no doubt because no one else wanted one ~~
in 1962. I spent most of 1962 in Europe, reconfirming my deep love
of Florida, its climate and the easy life in Coconut Grove.’ 1 forgot te
mention that from 1959 to 1962 I was associated, both in Miami and
New York, with A. C. Allyn & Company in the investment banking
business. Weeldy commuting to New York added about nventy pounds
which still remains. Just now, my business activity is still primarily tn
management consulting, my steady chents being engaged in real estate,
finance, airlines, banking, insurance and yacht building.

My hobbies remain the same — sailing (ocean racing). sports cam
(Aston-Martin at present), tennis (at 230 pounds), fiving almost every:
thing (George Arents is trying to get me in a sailplane), music (beth
personal piano and recordings). Pets include a Siameve cat, German
shepherd, and Brazilian wooly monkey. Social service has been as
director of YMCA and chairman, finance, Slum Clearance Comunttee,
both in Miami.

I remain a Democrat politically, perhaps not as mibtane as Ponce was.
On the whole, from personal observation here and abroad, our counters
has done a pretty good job, although some of our state departenene
people leave something to be desired — especially if one compares then
with their opposite numbers from other nations, Pam resarned to the
impossibility of any very big strides by a government, baal and
national, composed for the most part of time serving court house brats ra

Religion is not one of my strong points and I rarch wee tere bruir

Of the Class of 39, I have seen Cieorge Arenty wv haa tives te acdes,
most frequently; Jim Guilmartin and Po have worked om some ae
problems, and I see Dave Stern occasionally AT Vartous gathierts ss. Nes

“39er is most welcome at “Schloss Walrus’ Coconut Gsrove, bee?

&

992 HARVARD CLASS OF 193 9

GUSTAVUS FRANKLIN SWIFT, JR.

-

    

Pier omrneromremey rem cement cannes
i.
\ f ” "4 £ 4

HOME ADDRESS; 135] E. 56th St., Chicago 37, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Oriental Institute, University of Chicago, Chicago 37, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; PH.p. (Univ. of
Chicago), 1958.

marrieD: Eleanor Bowne Ransom, Aug. 19, 1939. CHILDREN: Alice, May 27, 1941;
Eleanor Bowne, Oct. 16, 1945; Gustavus Franklin, 4th, Oct. 20, 1947.

occupation: Near Eastern archeologist; research associate, Oriental Institute,
University of Chicago; field work and preparation of publication.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, 1947-63, president, 1963, Archaeological Insti-
tute of America; director, 1947-63, president, 1949-50, Hyde Park Neighbor-
hood Club; member, Hyde Park-Kenwood Conservation Community Council,
1956-63; director, Wedron Silica Company, ca, since 1947,

MEMBER OF: University Club of Chicago; Quadrangle Club; Archaeological Insti-
tute of America.

I pursued graduate studies at Harvard (very briefly), University of
Cincinnati (one year) and University of Chicago (briefly), from 1939
to December, 1941, in fields of archaeology.

From that time I was employed by the War Department in Washing-
ton and Arlington, Virginia, in the Office of the Chief Signal Officer
and successor organizations until early 1946.

I returned to the University of Chicago for continued work in Near
Fastern archaeology and have remained there except for travels and
field work. These have covered the Near East generally (1951 and 1952,
with participation in the Chicago Iraq-Jarmo project and a survey o
Svrian coastal sites), Greece (1954, with participation in the Chicago
Isthmia expedition) and Turkey (each summer, 1960 to 1963 and con-
tinuing, with the Archaeological Exploration of Sardis, which is spon-
sored by Harvard, Cornell and the American School of Oriental Re-
search). Here we have been trying, with progressive success, to expose
remains of King Croesus of Lydia and his forebears of the sixth and
seventh centuries B.C. and earlier, while highly interesting Hellenistic,
Roman and Byzantine materials have come forth at the same time.

My family 1s old enough to have participated in some of this summer
work in Turkey; Alice 1s a graduate student in Classics; Eleanor is at
Radcliffe, in history; Gus is in high school.

Other activities since 1946 have centered on what we hereabouts call

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 99}

Saving the Neighborhood, which has been a changing mix of university,
slum buildings, an extremely diverse and vocal population and a quantity
of organizations that can only be kept track of by other organizations

summed up as the Urban Renewal of Hyde Park.

PARTON SWIFT, JR. +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 9000 McDonald Drive, Bethesda, Vd.

994 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

DUDLEY TALBOT

cere rae a

   
 

BORN: Aug. 22, 1916, Portland, Maine. PaRENTS: Samuel Spring Talbot, 713,
Dorothea Dudley.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: 8S.B., 1939.

marrieD: Hope Halsey, April 9, 1942, Malden, Mass. cHiLpREN: Martha Fuller,
Feb. 12, 1944; Samuel Spring, Sept. 20, 1947; Alicia, Jan. 22, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Lincoln Talbot, 2d, °39.

pieD: Oct. 18, 1962, Boston, Mass.

winow: Mrs. Dudley Talbot, 65 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass.

Dudley Talbot spent four years with our Class. He was a resident of
Kirkland House, a member of the Varsity Club and Hasty Pudding-
Institute of 1770, and was captain of the 1939 Harvard crew which won
the Grand Challenge Cup at the Henley Regatta in England. During
World War Il he served with the Navy in both the Pacific and Atlantic
and commanded the destroyer escort Wyrzan which sank two Japanese
submarines, He ended his Navy career in 1946 with the rank of lieu-
tenant commander. After the war he was in the mercantile field and
the automobile business and was former president of the Talbot Pontiac
Company in Brookline, Massachusetts. He was survived by his wife and

children and a brother, Thomas L. Talbot, who is a member of our
Class.

THOMAS LINCOLN TALBOT, II

poe cere

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 99§

HOME ADDRESS: 29 Forman St., Cazenovia, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 950 Exchange St., Rochester 8, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: $.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Rose-Terry Harmon, June 7, 1941. cHttpkeN: Thomas Lincoln, 34, May
20, 1956; Sally-Terry, June 1, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Sales agent.
MEMBER OF; Cazenovia Club; Cazenovia Golf Club.

After graduation, I went to work for A. Milne & Company, distribu-
tors of high alloy steels, first in Boston and later in Chicago and New
York. The fall of 1940 found me quite eligible draft material, a condi-
tion which propelled me into the Navy's V-7 program.

While in New York I found an “old flame” working for Vogue maga-
zine and as soon as I was made an ensign in the Naval Reserve we were
married with appropriate honors. I spent most of the war in aircraft
carriers, Atlantic and Pacific Fleets. In 1945, 1 was finally released with
rank of lieutenant commander. Walking the ughtrope between court

martial and distinction was not an easy affair for me.

In 1946, we made our home in Southport, Connecticut, where 1 man-
aged A. Milne & Company’s southern New England operations, Two
years later I left my old employer to enter the sales agency field with a
friend. From a modest start, we are still a small but successful selling
organization. .

In 1954 my wife and I moved to Cazenovia, New York. Soon after,
we adopted a boy and a girl, both of whom we find interesting fanuly
additions. We summer at Prouts Neck, Maine, and the long upstate
winters have made us serious skiers.

I am sorry to report that in 1962, my brother and classmate, Dudley.

died suddenly. It is hard for me to realize that he will not be with us on
our Twenty-fifth.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 10 State St., Skaneateles, NY.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Morris Machine Works, Baldwinesille, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, NOEL

YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1935-1949, este: se Pe a,

Marniep: Audrey F. Wileon, March 6, 1ORL connmes Peter Woke, Pee 35.
1946; Sarah Drooke, Feb. 28, 1990; John Christophers, Gb, bebo bt be

996 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

occuPATION: Director of sales, Morris Machine Works, manufacturer of pumps
MEMBER OF: Skaneateles Country Club; L’Hirondelle Club, Ruxton, Md.

In summer of 1939 moved to Cleveland and got a job in factory.
Changed jobs in 1940, moving to Pennsylvania, New Jersey and then back
to Ohio. Spent one and a half years supervising 1300 women in manu-
facture of explosives. Enlisted in USMC, 1942; went to OCS and Ord-
nance School. Transferred to San Francisco where I stayed one year
and married Audrey F. Wilson, Wellesley ’41, of Cleveland. Spent two
years in Pacific — Saipan, Tinian, Okinawa, China, etc.

1 returned to Baltimore, where I ran an iron foundry for two years,
Foundry folded and I went to work for a builder of dredges. After ten
years quit to try my hand at self employment for two years. This was a
flop, so I came up here to the snow belt of New York State, where we
have been very happy learning to ski, golf and shovel snow.

During this time we have produced three children, the eldest of whom

is at Exeter. Had wonderful trip to Scotland and Scandinavia last year.
Hope to go back soon.

GEORGE GROSVENOR TARBELL, JR.

    

HOME appress: Old Farm Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: 144 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREE: A.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Dorothy Chase, March 22, 1941. cumoreNn: Sarah Curtis, Aug. 26, 1942;

Martha Fuller, Nov. 22, 1946; George Grosvenor, 3d, Nov. 30, 1948.
OCCUPATION: General insurance agent/broker,

OFFICES HELD: Assessor, Town of Lincoln, 1950-56, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Stonehorse Yacht Club, Harwich Port, Mass.; Insurance Brokers
Association of Massachusetts, Boston.

Upon leaving college 1 went into the general insurance business and

have been there ever since. War record: lieutenant, USNR, Pacific area,
two years’ active duty.

Major interests are duck hunting, photography and classical music.
Lead a normal quiet life in Lincoln, Massachusetts, with my family,

DOr

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 997

RICHARD DAVID TARMEY

 

HOME appREss: 12775 Viscaino Drive, Los Altos Hills, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Blum’s; Drug King, Inc., 1465 Polk St., San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; m.B.a. (Stanford Univ.), 1962;
C.P.A., 1951.

UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer, controller, assistant secretary, director, Blum's, manu-
facturers, wholesalers and retailers of candy and confections, restaurant oprra-

tors; vice-president, treasurer, assistant secretary, Drug Ning. Inc. drug stores
(supers) and restaurants.

MEMBER OF: Stanford Club of Palo Alto, Harvard Club of San Francisco, Stanford
Graduate School of Business Association; California Society of Certihed Pub-

lic Accountants; American Institute of Certified Public Accountants, Com-
monwealth Club of California.

Following graduation I continued in my civil service position with
the Boston Overseers of the Public Welfare, a position which financially
had supported me through my last three years at Harvard. One more
year of employment and budgeting made tt possible for me to enter the
Stanford Graduate School of Business. That was the vear (1940)
Stanford defeated Nebraska at the Rose Bowl. VW atching such a
spectacle on New Year’s Day in shirtsleeves for the first time, in con-
trast, left me with a thrill which I continually recall most vividly.

After graduation from the Stanford Business School, [was employed
as follows: 1) In production control for Lockheed at Burbank, Cah-
fornia, for a short period in 1942. 2) In standard cost and cove planmig
administration for Columbia Steel Company (a U.S. Steel subsidiary) ar
San Francisco and Pittsburg, California, from tog2 to 1946. 1) In a stems
and management services for Lester Herrick and Herrick, CPA's at
San Francisco, from 1946 to 1952. 4) Asa financial and accounony ofhcer
as well as director in my present employment at San Francisco sinee
1952.

I have attempted to resist the tendencies of the “man in the gris
flannel suit.” Nevertheless, my social, political and ccligeus acnciiys
have been limited to some extent by the requirements ot my proarion
This situation must and shall change. During FAD Ros scennd teri. nes
political leanings shifted to those of a somewhat hberal Re pruteliean ME.
religious outlook might be termed philosophical and mon seareccan bi

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

998 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

fact, I believe in the basics which are common and acceptable to
religions. m

MATTHEW TAYBACK

   

HOME ADDRESS: 5817 Bellona Ave., Baltimore 12, Md.

OFFICE AppRESS: Baltimore City Health Dept., Baltimore 3, Md.

PREPARED aT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; A.M., 1940; s.p. (Johns Hop.
kins Univ.), 1953.

MaRRIED: Anita Mary Moffat, June 5, 1945. cHitpren: Robert Moffat, Jan. 17
1947; Matthew Gordon, Oct. 14, 1948; Sheila Kathryn, Noy. 29, 195].

OCCUPATION: Deputy Commissioner of Health, City of Baltimore.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Maryland State Commission on Aging.

MEMBER OF: American Public Health Association; Medical and Chirurgical Faculty
of Maryland.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific papers on epidemiology, public health administration and
demography.

Life is busy and full, One hopes that it is useful. Following gradua-

tion, a four-year tour of duty with the U.S. Army during World War
Il postponed further professional training. However, I have no regrets
on that score. Since 1946 it has been a matter of consistent advancement
in a career devoted to public health administration. One of the un-
expected pleasures has been involvement in international work as a con-
sultant to the World Health Organization and to a number of foreign
governments. This has provided opportunity for work in Asia, Africa
and Central America. At home, my position as Deputy Commissioner
of Health brings me into contact with the panorama of problems faced by
a major City as it seeks to come to grips with the social, economic and
health circumstances of about 1,000,000 residents. Service in church as
an elder, membership in several charitable organizations and continua
tion of military service as a lieutenant colonel in the U.S. Medical
Service Corps Reserve round out the circle of activity,

_ So far as basic philosophy is concerned, I’ve learned that wherever one
is on this earth, individuals have the same fundamental aspirations. Our
developing countries. But w howd is a good model to suggest
ticular political and econ © Should not demand acceptance of our par”

P omic organization as a condition for assistance.

 

Ost

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 9
Og
d demand, however, adherence to basic tencts of

r, choul : democrae
e sh nsible fiscal, national government. metaey

and to resp?

GRAY TAYLOR

     

HOME ADDRESS: Dingletown Road, Greenwich. Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sherwood, Mills & Smith, 7i7 Summer St.. Stamford. Conn.

PREPARED AT: Salisbury School, Salisbury, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B. 1939; B.arcH. (Columbia Univ),

947.

aanaren: Patsy Raymond, June 8, 1946. cHitoreN: Dicey, Nov, 1, 1949; Aven
Gray, May 29, 1951.

occupaTIoN: Architect; partner, Sherwood, Mills & Smith.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects: Society of Architecta: Harvard
Club of New York; Greenwich Skating Club; Burning Tree Country and
Indian Harbor Yacht Club, both in Greenwich.

The fall after graduation I entered Columbia University Schoal af
Architecture. Frankly, the idea of being an architect had never occurred
to me while at Harvard. After studying architecture for two veary my
local draft board invited me to “fall in” in July, togt. After bave
training in the Infantry, 1 was lucky to be able to transtcr te an engineer
map-making company. From there, I went to OCS at Belyeu, Tevas
maneuvers in Louisiana, Oran, Algicrs, Italy and home again late in tags.
I think I saw only one *39er the whole time.

Shortly after disembarking from the wars, mv cv-foenmte, fell
Knowles, introduced me to my future bride, Paty Raymond. Pats ans
I lived in New York for six years while [ completed arehitecrural w bowl
and served apprenticeship in several oftices.

_In 1952, Patsy and I and our ewo children moved to Greens h We
lived happily and, I think, handsomely in a Tay ler-desiyned house oat
Taylor-designed lake. Our two children, Dicey fourteen and Sewer
twelve, attended schools locally, Dicey’s school, the Greens?

cademy, is one of my productions, Austin, a seventh grader at the

Teenwich Country Day School, is so far mere innerestesh HY eee

ockey and lacrosse than in English, Lana and matheracs Were
adopting a third child this winter and so will be back my the fae 6F 1°
ottle and the diaper can from which we graduarcd weme 8 west a "
run ro mine fond of dogs and usually have from fee te tenon 2 ved
ature poodles and New foundlands.

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

__!

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939
1000 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT toot

For recreation, Patsy and I play bridge into the wee h . . . .. . .. ws
Powers (Kirkland House 39) and his wife, Olive. Oc, casion th Fa ear as a graduate assistant in political science at Louisiana State Uni-

sneak off from the office for a round of golf. My scores are di Ys I versity:

; oo Seusti ts in Europe brought the cold touch of reality. After the year at
I also fish when, I have the chance. pe, Bening IS no better than ng. isU came five years of Army service, not particularly glamorous or
golf. We have one some ne 4 : € to take the child; y pic — just endless. With release in November, 1945, came immediate
with us. Weve been to Europe four or five times in the past few ye en be vage 1) Henrietta Medalia.
and consider ourselves some sort of experts on the pleasures and Paine mm enrolled at Littauer with one major objective: to try to find a ficld of

of traveling with the gang. interest for a career. The objective was met. Catherine Bauer (Wourster),

My work asa partmer at Sherwood, Mills & Smith becomes More anq lecturer at the Harvard School of Design, introduced me to the challenge
more satisfying and stimulating. We are six congenial partners wh. of policy formulation and administration in urbanism— housing and
operate quite independently, yet collaborate freely on design and general . Janning and the problems of urban growth and decay. 1 have been a

policy. Our earliest work was chiefly in schools. We are now doin worker in this vineyard ever since.

At first, I worked on the public side. 1 had three years as an adminis-

an increasing number of jobs for colleges, hospitals, churches and in. / :
trative assistant to the director of the Massachusetts State Housing Board

dustries. At the moment, we are working on buildings for, Briarcligt

College, Brown University and IBM. So far, nothing for Harvard.

H.

 

rESS: 33 Cooper Rd., North Haven, Conn.
RESS: Taylor-Hurley Associates, Inc., 4 W. 58th St., New York, N.Y.
tT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass. .
ALLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m. (Loul-
tate Univ.), 1940; m.p.a. (Harvard Univ.), 1947.
enrietta I. Medalia, Jackson ’40, Nov, 18, 1945. cHmpreN: Allan Bert,
, 1948; Robert Stanley, May 11, 1950; David Louis, July 17, 1953.
Executive vice-president, real estate development company; co-ownel;
g organization specializing in providing guidance and assistance to
and non-profit institutions wanting to participate in federally-
ousing programs and urban renewal. 5
Director, Somerville Housing & Redevelopment Authority, 1951-59,
n Redevelopment Agency, 1955-59; executive vice-president, Renew
nent Agency, 1959-63; vice-chairman, executive committee, Nationa
of Redevelopment Officials, 1957-59: member, board of directors,
ousing Conference Legislative Policy Committee, National Housiné

» the realities of the outside world my ambition in the
1939 was to be a “scholarship bum,” financed by the Uni-
combined fun and the pursuit of a graduate degree, for
really knew not, nor cared. The first installment was 4

jn the administration of a large-scale veterans emergency housing pro-
ram. The challenge and the interest diminished as the Massachusetts
tradition of political interference and the appointment of political hacks
changed the caliber and character of the organization.
A shift to the new but allied field of urban redevelopment and an
operational position on the firing line at the local level followed the ap-
ointment as the executive in charge of what became the first urban re-
development project to be carried into execution in Massachusetts in 1951.
In 1955 New Haven, Connecticut, recruited me as director of their
new redevelopment agency by finding me a house in a Yale faculty en-
clave and presenting the opportunity to be an integral part of what |

believe has proven to be this country’s greatest and most successful cf-

forts to rebuild an entire city. The four work years in New Haven were
years of pioneering achievement with added gratification of national
recognition.

After a brief interlude as consultant on urban renewal to the Govern.
ment of Chile on a State Department contract, during which my family
and I traveled extensively through South America, | moved from the
public to the private side of city rebuilding. As exccutive vice-president
of Renewal & Development Corporation | have been involved in the
planning, development, construction and operation of over rs00 ayrart-
ments in urban development projects in Sacramento and Marin County,
California; St. Louis, Missouri; Washington, D.C.; Brookline, Mavacha-
setts; and San Juan, Puerto Rico. By September, 1944, an additional sone
units now in advanced planning should be under construction.

Redevelopment to me is more than a traditional real estate operation,

It is an opportunity to develop a new physical and social pattern for
urban America, We have pioneered, we believe, in our insistence on
quality architecture and planning and in our belicf in the morality of
integration even when the traditionalists were trumpeting theie pred:
tion that economic disaster would follow.

In the last year, with an associate, | have branched into consulting tn
this rather specialized ficld, The most challenging consulting asegament
involves participation in the creation of a new CUY On Soon acres ef roll,
ing Virginia countryside outside of Washington,

My Career in the general ficld of urban problems and des cloprnent We

cen thoroughly satisfying, for which Pam very geateful Phere ica

1002 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

feeling of positive accomplishment when, as in Southwest Washington, I
view a New 1700-apartment community where once stood Washington's
worst slum. The one burr under the saddle is the fact that there is too
much travel and time away from my family.

Our three sons, fifteen, thirteen and ten, know that Harvard is to be
earned, not inherited. It is a constant amazement to us to see how far
ahead this generation is compared to where we were at a similar age,
Judging only by our standards, the boys are Harvard material. But the
decision is theirs — and Harvard’s Admission Committee.

Henrietta Medalia (Jackson ’40) became an associate member of Kirk-
land House in the fall of 1938. Now, two wars and three sons later, we

still find life fun. After twenty-five years that is the accomplishment of
which we are most proud.

WENTWORTH JORDAN TELLINGTON +

 
  

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: % J. Tellington, P.O. Box 1062, Berlin, N.H.

DANA LEE THOMAS

=

i

 

HOME AppREsS: 470 West End Ave., New York 24, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Barron’s National Business and Fi i adway
Nea York 4, NY. inancial Weekly, 50 Bro ’
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1003

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEGREE: a.B., 1939.
MARRIED: Ruth Natalie Small, April 7, 1947. cuivo: Peter, Jan. 13. 199.
occuPATION: Editor and writer; associate editor, Barron's HBeeekly. a finaneial

publication affiliated with Wall St. Journal and published by Dow Jones &
Company.

PUBLICATIONS: Fifty Great Americans, Doubleday, a Family Reading Club selec-
tion; Let The Chips Fall, with Newbold Morris, Appleton-Century-Crofts: Cra-
saders for God, Wyn; A Paris Surgeon’s Story, Little, Brown; The Story eo}
American Statehood, Funk & Wagnalls; contributor to Reader's Digest. Cos-
mopolitan, Coronet, Senior Scholastic, Dun’s Review and other perivdicale;
currently writing a history of Wall St., and editing a manuscript, The Tarts
of Ohio, to be published in the fall of 1964.

The twenty-five years have passed quickly, but not without their sting.
1 graduated from Harvard to find the world plunged into war and I
spent three years in uniform, first with the combat engineers, then doing
public relations for General Patton’s Third Army. Upon returning
home I entered the zany, unpredictable world of free-lance writing.
Occasionally when | decided that the opportunity to eat steadily was the
better part of valor, I took jobs in advertising and sales promotion. Dur-
ing this period I began having my first children — publishing the Living
Biographies Series and co-authoring a book with Newbold Morris about
the New York political scene from the days of La Guardia. Since then
my family has grown quite a bit. In the last eight vears I have been an
associate editor of Barron’s National Business and Financial Weekly and
have had a chance to examine the idiosyncrasies of the business and
financial world from the “sitting duck” posture of the journalist who
presumes to pontificate about matters as dear to people as their pocket-
books. As I look back I realize that I have not accomplished nearly as
much as I had dreamed of doing while at Harvard — nor have | been as
frustrated in my ambitions as some of my sneakier nightmares might have
led me to believe.

I have retired to the middle road of aspirations and outlook and I have
even learned to look tolerantly upon my rebellious son who at fourteen
has become a mathematician, indulging in a world that is intellectually
beyond me, and who reads voraciously everybody's writing but mine.
In these days of disintegrating standards and the increasingly devastating
exposure of the inadequacies of the Self, I feel chat to acquire half a leat
is substantially better than to be left with none. Tdo not know whether
there is a destiny above that provides a counterweight to all the works
misery, but as I grow older, I grasp with increasing stubbornness the
comforting warmth of aesthetic surroundings, the hentaze of the best
that has been handed down from the past, the right to hve graciously.

1004 HARVARD CLASS OF ] 939

JAY HARRY THOMAS, JR.

  

Howe aporess: Box 965, Irving, Texas.

PREPARED AT: Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLECK: 1955-1936, 1937-1940, DECREE: a.B., 1939( 41),

mannitd: Irene Fiteyerald, 1940 (divorced 1955), cHitp: Jay Harry, 3d, Oct. 2,
POA.

occeuPaTION: Executive vice-president of Texas corporation.

orrices HELD: President, Dramatic Club, Shortridge, 1932; treasurer, Sigma
Alpha Epsilon Fraternity, Harvard, 1938-40.

memMark OF: Harvard Club of New York; International City Managers’ Associa.
tions S.A.B. Fraternity.

Shortly after graduation I entered the Army and after graduating from
the Advanced Artillery School in Fort Sill, Oklahoma, my battalion was
sent to Europe. We crossed the Rhine River at Bonn, Germany, and
spent V-E Dav in Europe. After the war I stayed in the Reserves and
am what is called a career Reserve officer, assigned with the rank of
colonel to the chief of staff for logistics, Department of Defense, In
June, 1961, | graduated from the Command & General Staff Army Col-
lege at Fort Leavenworth.

Also after the war [ joined Price-Waterhouse as an accountant, later
became an executive in the Chrysler Corporation, but resigned to become
the Washington, D.C. sales manager for Packard Motor Car Company.
After Packard failed [ went out west and eventually wound up in God's
Country, “Texas.”

el,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1005

HENRY SMITH THOMPSON

  
 
 

  

 

HOME ADDRESS: Fairhaven Hill, Concord, Mass.
OFFICE appRESS: Middlesex County National Bank, 81 Main St., Maynard, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; M.B.a., 1941.

MarRiED: Irene Frances Bagdon, Nov. 30, 1946. cHILDREN: Paul Alexander, March

25, 1949; Dorothy, Nov. 9, 1950; Mary Sargent, July 13, 1952; John A., April
3, 1958; Robert F., Aug. 31, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Commercial banking; assistant vice-president, manager, Maynard
Branch, Middlesex County National Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Maynard March of Dimes, since 1960, Maynard Salva-
tion Army, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Concord; Concord Country Club; Maynard Rotary
Club (president, 1963-64); Bay State Investors; Harvard Varsity Club.

Following graduation I completed two years at the Harvard Business
School before being called into the service. Spent five years with the
Army Quartermaster Corps, making my headquarters in various parts
of Africa for some thirty-one months. Since my separation in 1946, 1
have worked in turn for Chance Vought Aircraft, the Coca-Cola Com-
pany, Lever Brothers and Hood Rubber Company before settling down
to a banker’s existence with the Middlesex County National Bank, as
branch manager of their Maynard office.

In 1946 while at Chance Vought I met and married Irene F. Bagdon.
This has been a successful venture with five offspring, aged fourteen
through four, as dividends. In 1959 we built a new home on family land
in Concord and this project has taken much of our time. I continue to
have an active interest in athletics and in spite of the limitation of a back

operation still play golf and squash, having won the Concord Country
Club golf championship several times.

1006 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ELIHU CRAIG THOMSON

    

HOME ADDRESS: 55 Livingston Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Electronics Corp. of America, 1 Memorial Drive, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pecreEs: s.B., 1939; s.B. IN EE. (Mass. Inst. of
Technology), 1941.

marrieD: Marjorie Carle Woodbury, Aug. 18, 1951. cHitpreN: Lynne, July 15, 1955;
Stuart Craig, Aug. 12, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Senior electronics engineer, Electronics Corporation of America,
manufacturers of industrial electronic controls.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Technical Group on Electronics, Boston Section, Ameri-
can Institute of Electrical Engineers, 1947.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers.
PUBLICATIONS: Approximately thirty patents in the field of electronics.

After graduation J found that my Bachelor’s degree in physics qualified
me to do little more than go on with specialization in science, so I went
to M.LT. and got an S.B. in Electrical Engineering in 1941. I then
joined Photoswitch, Inc., a small company engaged in the design of in-
dustrial electronic controls. During the war my knowledge was applied
in behalf of the company to the design of electronic circuitry used in
electronic weapons, guided missiles and radar trainers.

After the war | began to suffer from poor health and for four years
starting in 1948, because of this and a curtailment of the Photoswitch de-
velopment program, I worked only part-time on a consulting basis.
During these years I developed high-speed industrial electronic counters
for another company and, for a company related to Photoswitch, de-
veloped electronic safeguards for industrial oil and gas burners using
infra-red detectors to sense burning flames. These form the basis of our
current products in that field.

My health was much improved by 1950, and in 1951 I married Mar-
jorie C. Woodbury of Braintree, Massachusetts, The next year we built
a contemporary house in Wellesley, and | resumed full-time work with
Photoswitch as their senior electronics engineer, a position I still occupy.
In 1955 a daughter, Lynne, was born, followed by a son, Stuart, in 1958.

Photoswitch and several related small corporations marketing special
products under one management were merged in 1952 to form the
Electronics Corporation of America which now occupies the building
at 1 Memorial Drive, Cambridge. The corporation develops and pro-

shes

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1007?

duces electronic products, both commercial and military. Through the
years | have had complete electronic engineering responsibility and fre-

quently total design responsibility for most of the commercial products
of the corporation, and have directed the engineering design on more
than one military project. A recent contribution to the commercial ficld
was the design of the automatic headlight beam changer for Chrysler
cars in 1958. In 1959 | introduced transistors into our industrial controls,
the first complete line of transistorized controls in this field.

ARTHUR EDMUND TIEMANN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 8805 Sundale Drive, Silver Spring, Md.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Aviation Agency, Washington, D.C.
PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

MARRIED: Riboline Youngwitz, April 19, 1944. cHitoreN: Robert Michael, Jan. 3
1945; David Jeremy, Jan. 25, 1955; Zachary Jon, May 31, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Staff planning officer, Office of Policy Development, Federal Avia-
tion Agency.

MEMBER OF: American Statistical Association: American Economic Assecialwn:
American Society for Public Administration,

Like most of my classmates, I am now a suburbanite, happily married,
father of three sons, one in college, and living a very middle clas evs.
ence. But there are differences, too. For “example, I work for the
Federal Government. In fact, except for the first year after graduation,
the U.S. Treasury has been my chief source of income.

Of course, part of the past twenty-five years was spent w ith the
Armed Forces — nearly five years, in fact. But then most ef the Class of
1939 was in the right age bracket for that sort of activitv. Mivonmuhtary
service was with the Quartermaster Corps, dispensing petroleun pronfices
all over Europe.

Except for my sojourn with the Army, T have lived in of armund the
nation’s capital since 1940. 1 was an old-timer in W ahingron by che
time the recent migration of Harvard men had started. Phig ina eet
shell, is the life of one member of the Class of ry yy.

Professionally, I] became a statistician and. more reeenth. bare en
tered the field of planning at the Federal Avianion Agen sy. bue rhe tet
time in my government carcer, | am surrounded by Hlarvard Nin:

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

1008 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

including my boss, several of my fellow planners, and even the gir} Ww
shares my office. That's right; she received her Master’s degree f,,,
Harvard last year. And, paradoxically, the two summer employees
assigned to our office last summer were both students at Yale, .

In my spare time, | teach an evening class in statistics for the George
Washington University, sing tenor in a choir and make futile aty
to keep a suburban Cape Cod house in a state of reasonable repair,
are interminable P.T.A. and civic association meetings and a fe
ago a stint as president of a synagogue. The rest of the time Is
my family or ty to read, usually ending up falling asleep in n
chair,

empts
There
W Years
pend with

W favorite
Altogether f live a hectic existence, sometimes punctuated by feelin

of great satisfaction in the accomplishments of my sons or by the recog.
nition that some of the things | de contribute a little to the public wel-
fare. My four years at Harvard no doubt helped mold me, but then so
did a lot of other t

hings. But 1 look back on the period 1935-39 a8 4
wonderful time and one | would not want to have missed.

ROBERT WALLACE TILNEY, JR.

Be

  

MOME Adnanss: Hardscrabble Road, Bernardeville, NJ.
OFPICE Apongss: 21 Perry St. Mortistown, NJ.
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

Years os. COLLECE: 1935-1939, vecREES: az. 1939; wm (Univ. of Pennsylvania),

2. LAT. David Williams, Dec. 1950; S$ 28, 19535
Anne C. Oet. 14, 1956, 30, 1950; Susanne Grantland, May ,

Occupation: Surgeon; chairman, Surgical Service, Morristown Memorial Hospital.

maanniep: Anne CG. Williams. May 18. 1946. cHrpren: Robert Wallace, 3d, Aug-
OFFICES HELD: Consultant in general surgery, Newton M i ital, Newton,
NJ.5 consultant in head and neck Sere en Memorial Hospits

WN3.5 warden, Church

a surgery. All Souls Hospital, Morristow?,

U h of St. John on the Mountain, Bernardsville, N.J.; mem

ber of corporation, Gill School, Bermardsville. NJ

meMerrn oF: American College of Sar ‘
of Head and Neck Surgeons,

geons; American Board of Surgery; Society
resuications: “Head and Neck Cancer,”
Jersey, March, 1962.

Journal of the Medical Society of New
1 started practice of general surgery here thirt d dur.
ing that time the population has doubled in size and che I hoseital where

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1 has tripled. My practice has gradually become more special
work now deals largely with tumor surgery of the head and neck
and " | find most stimulating.
wh puilt a house in Bernardsville about ten years ago on the to
wide g hill and our family has thrived here ever since. Our eldest
W sby, is at Holderness School and the younger three are at home b
Bo ve q at the Gill School. In the summertime for a month we g
oer east Harbor, Maine, where we have enjoyed to the fullest
activities th

ere for all ages. My wife and J have gone abroad twice
kiecharter flights and to Bermuda twice, once on our honeymoon
s

., last year on a business convention. We go skiing with
el . emily wt house in Wilmington, Vermont, which we partly 0:
This ‘. one of the few family sports that I know of where all ages
have fun at their own speeds but do it all together as a family.

. was a beach party doctor during the war, participated in four
vasjons in the Pacific and was discharged a lieutenant senior grade.
vaieve there should be equal rights for all citizens, with the understar
re that with privilege comes responsibility and that education is t
Whe qua non for race harmony. This is a difficult adjustment and tole

ance and patience are necessary after so many years of segregation.

| am a Republican and feel that we should have less government spen:

ing, less government control, and indeed less government. I can't s

why we should spend sixty billion dollars to go to the moon. I am é

Episcopalian, and we actively support the church, my wife singing -

the choir along with two of our children.

In summing it up,

1 feel chat I have been most fortunate in every re
spect. I still feel young and enthusiastic an

d have many goals I woul
still ike to reach and activities I would still like to do.

WILLIAM HATHEWAY TIMBERLAKE

  

  

HOME apprEss: 194 Common St., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lemuel Shattuck Hospital, 170 Morton St.,
PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

TEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1

Jamaica Plain, Maas.

939; ao. (Tufts Coll,

maretzy: Dorothy W. Noon, April 2, 1943. cHILpREN: Edith, March 25, 1945; Mary

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

1010 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Jan. 10, 1947; William Hatheway, Jr., July 30, 1948; Faith, Feb. 99° 1953
Mary, Feb. 3, 1955. ;

OccUPATION: Neurologist.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant clinical professor of neurology, Harvard Univer
1962; associate neurologist, Massachusetts General Hospital, since 1958.
chief, Neurology Service, Lemuel Shattuck Hospital, since 1956, Newton’
Wellesley Hospital, since 1959. ; n-

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Neurology; American Medical Association.
American Association on Mental Deficiency; Association for Research in Nery.
ous and Mental Disease; Boston Society of Neurology and Psychiatry; Ee
ern Association of Electroencephalographers; Massachusetts Medical Society:
New England Society of Psychiatry. ’

Sity, since

RICHARD STANLEY TOBEY

   

eh
HOME ADpRESS: 202 Pierce Rd., Wilmington, Del.

OFFICE ADDRESS: E, I. duPont de Nemours & Co., Wilmington, Del.
PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936. pecREES: s.8. (Tufts Coll.), 1939; s.m. (ibid.),

MARRIED: Virginia M. Lynde, June 7, 1941. cHmpREN: Pamela, Sept. 16, 1942;
Richard Stanley, Jr., Dec. 24, 1945.

JAMES TOBIN

 

oi sr

et ,
io f |
ER C4

HOME ApprEss: 117 Alden Ave., New Haven 15, Conn,
orrice appress: Yale University, 30 Hillhouse Ave. New Haven Conn
, .

 

 

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT bony
University High School, Urbana, Ill.
P pEPARED COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1939-
YEARS De sae abeth Ringo, Sept. 14, 1946. cHtpREN: Margaret Rings Jul
MARRS. Louis Michael, July 10, 1951; Hugh Ringo, July 13, 1953, Roger Gall.
‘19, 1956. oe
Dec. ia Scorling Professor of Economics, Yale University.
HELD? Associate professor, 1950-55, professor of econumies, since JO%5
OFFICES tor, Cowles Foundation for Research in Economics, 1953-4), Yale tm.
direc! . member, President’s Council of Economic Advisers, Washington land.
oF fynior fellow, Society of Fellows, 1947-50. teaching fellow, [ow 47
award University; economist, Office of Price Administration and Caihan
Supply and War Production Board, 1941-42; consultant, various Keveenuent
agencies. . E . A . « . “
aR OF! American conomic ssociation | (executive committee, 1948 ais
VE onometric Society (fellow, Member of Council, president 1938); Amenean
Statistical Association (fellow); American Philosophical Society: Aimeriean
‘Academy of Arts and Sciences; American Association of University Protes
sors (president, Yale Chapter, 1960) °
ications: Co-author with Harris, Kaysen and Sutton, The American Rusiness
PUB Creed Harvard, 1955; numerous articles in professional economics and
cratistics journals and books and in Yale Review, New Republic and New
York Times Magazine.

aw. low,

occuPAT

After the outbreak of war cut short my post-graduation “wanderjahe”
in Europe, I returned to Harvard for two years of graduate work in
economics, serving as proctor at the same time. In the summer of rg
I was recruited as a very junior economist in the economic mobihzanion
agencies just being organized. This was a great experience because the
new agencies were under-manned and at that time too young to be
bureaucratic, so we juniors had considerable scope for initiative, intlu-
ence, and responsibility. Classmates Ham Dearborn and Bill Parker were
in the same line of work and we lived in luxury with two other bache-
lors in a house on Reservoir Road.

After Pearl Harbor I enlisted in the Navy and was sent in Apa, tog,
to the ninety-day-wonder officer training course at Columbia. Uh
particular course and group of midshipmen is immortalized in The Cara
Mutiny; Herman Wouk was one of the group and he has given ine a
brief appearance in the novel. The rest of the war T spent on a destrovet
(USS Kearny, DD-432). Time and experience moved me trem bering
laundry officer to gunnery officer ta exccutive officer, We particjpated
in Atlantic and Mediterranean convoys and anti-submarine task forces
the invasion of North Africa, the Anzio campaign, the invasion of South:
ern France, After being converted into a radar picket sup we were
heading to the Pacific for the invasion of Japan, Fortunately, all we bot
to do was to escort occupation troops. PE found the destroyer a tremen:
ous experience: it taught me things about human beings ve val Keeney
administration, and myself that probably would have missed alpoyre et
in my sheltered peacetime pursues. Burt Poadrdi't fied oe doth cit te freee
the Navy's blandishments and head back to Plarvard atter the vey ee
into mothballs,
several wayne ‘ very. exeiting place in the Col we oe a , |
maturity ent generations all atoneg with ners m ‘ ae
of the y than even Harvard generally collet. en ‘ ue

rem in Eee. A, and learning trom and wath ethers as a ee?

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

_/

LOT

dent writing my thesis. I was a tutor at Dunster. I met Be
who shared my interest in economics, northern Wiscons; tty Rin

nsin, baseb i Fo.
a L and

many other things — in the spring of 1946 and married her i
ot my doctorate in 1947 at the same Commencement when n° fall. I

Jade his historic Marshall Plan speech. At the same time ]
elected to the Society of Fellows which gave me a chance for pad
years of research and study on my own, the third of which J] FAree more
ther Cambridge with my wife and baby daughter. SPent in the
Though I had always regarded New Haven as an unsight]
the way to New York and Yale as an institution which com ¥ obstacle
-vard only in athletics, I thought in 1950 that I had been ae ETS With
tong enough and Yale offered me the most attractive oppo arvard
ns out that New Haven is a very pleasant place to live nae te tunity,
ly and that Yale is a splendid institution for the advancengr
z but has trouble beating Harvard in football. During m nt of
e Yale Economics Department has become one of the best va

(incidentally it contains three Harvard ’39ers, Bill Parker at j
gles besides me, and Yale also boasts Bob Lane in Political] an

Jick Lewis in English). Most of my teaching is in the Gradu-

in economic theory and monetary economics. In 1955 an

- research organization, the Cowles Commission, moved to

hicago; I became a member of its research staff and served

‘until 1960. In 1958-59 I took my family to Europe for a

; our headquarters were Geneva but we traveled all over

of one summer in Norway.

761, I accepted President Kennedy’s invitation to serve

his three-man Council of Economic Advisers, of which

-and is Walter Heller. We moved to Washington for
a half. This was a wonderful experience — very hard
nd weeks, sometimes frustrating, but always interest-
But it’s not to be recommended for family life or as
lege professor who needs time to think, I returned
aed and stipulated, in the fall of 1962, but I continue
uncil on occasional trips to Washington. I take a

rhe January, 1962, Economic Report of the Presi-

red under this administration.
, is at Putney School in Vermont. The oldest

just starting Hopkins Grammar School, a day
te and his two younger brothers are strongly
cted, On the local scene, my wife has carrie
civic activities though I have served on the
J of a nursery school. My hobbies run to "
yeing, camping, fishing, We spend as mur
‘a family place on a lake in northern Wis-
‘ermont for a week of skiing every Winte
_ But I don’t feel that either party 4 per
these days, A wealthy and fortunate ©”

’ the less privileged and fortunate In e
erhaps it is less a failure of consciene
scal, economic, and social myths Oe

the case of the Negroes, howevel

HARVARD CLASS OF I 93 9

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1O1yZ

i Jy at faule in both > : i, .
have been grievously c th ways. The essential principle is th
dignity of the human being and his right to equality of opporte nity and

om. Personally, | have not found that formal religion illuminates

freed L f
adds moral force to this principle.

WILLIAM GREGORY TONNER, Jr.
Eee oes ar i roe : nena

    

HOME ADpRESS: Guadalcanal Apt. 26, Armed Forces Staff College, Norfolk, Va.
oFFIcE apprEsS: Armed Forces Staff College, Norfolk, Va.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.
maRRiED: Kathryn Ann Brown, March 5, 1946. cHitoren: William Gregory, 21,

March 21, 1947; Sherry Virginia, Sept. 15, 1949.
occupaTION: Captain, Supply Corps, US. Navy; military education: assistant

group director and member of the faculty, Armed Forces Siafi College.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club; Sewells Point Golf Club; Toastmasters Iwtere,

national.

I wouldn't say I joined the Navy to see the world, but for the past
twenty-five years I've been doing just that, There have been places
and times when life could have been more enjoyable, but my wind
dims on the low periods and vividly recalls the high pons. M\ Wyss
of ships from the “four pipe” destroyers of the rggo-gu Atlantic convoy
days to aircraft carriers in the modern fleet. Stath asignivents with
Lockwood’s Pacific submarines during the big war, with Barke in the
Korean War, and with Joy at Panmunjon, Never let it be said that Vve
avoided Washington — eight years of ethereal enlightenment. Challeng:
Ing, interesting, exciting — I have never seriously considered erchanging
my career for another. For the past few years Vve been asigned to the
faculty of the Armed Forces Staff College, one of the senor mitts
schools, where we teach the organization and concepts of modem ware
fare through its entire spectrum, a most necessary subject Ww the Weghly
complicated and technical era in which we live. yo

I enjoy living in Norfolk —not too far north, not too far woth
for here I can indulge my middle years with boating, tehing ak gett,
all of which help to keep me in good health, Vimght mention tht
today I “weigh in” exactly the same as on Commencarent Way 4

Quarter of a century ago,

1014 HARVARD CLASS OF 193 9

CHARLES COE TOWNSEND, JR,

  

    
  

HOME appress: Cove Road, Oyster Bay, N.Y.
orFice appress: IBM World Trade Corp., 821 United Nations Plaza, New York,
N.Y,

PREPARED AT: St, Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. pecrees: a.B., 1939; sm. (Columbia Univ.), 1941.

MARRIED: Anita van Lennep Higgins, March 29, 1947. cHILDREN: Charles Coe, 3d,
Feb, 8, 1949; Frederic, Jan. 17, 1951; James B., May 25, 1954; Benjamin H.,
Dec. 11, 1957 (died Sept. 26, 1959) ; Claire T., July 18, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Manager of financial programs, IBM World Trade Corporation.
OFFICES HELD: Director, New York School for the Deaf, since 1955.

After twenty-five years the learning process still goes on formally and
informally, What | learned at Harvard was more helpful in extracur-
ticular ways than in the formal disciplines. I have had a number of in-
teresting jobs and look forward to more of the same.

JOHN CHRISTOS TRAKAS

HOME ADDRESS: 50 Meadowview Rd., Milton 86, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1269 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass, 02146,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: 4.B., cum laude, 1939: m.p., 1943.

maratep: Anne Poulos, Aug. 21, 1955. cHILDREN: Christopher John, Jan. 18, 1959;
Jennifer Maria, Jan. 28, 1960; Nicholas John, Dec. 28, 1961,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT LOUSs

OCCUPATION: Physician; otolaryngologist; private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, member, board of trustees and Planning Board,
Greek Orthodox Cathedral of Boston, 1946-63; president, Brookline Lions
Club, 1953.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
American Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology; American Board of
Otolaryngology; New England Otolaryngological Society; New England So.
ciety of Allergy; Otolaryngological Society for Plastic Surgery.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; multiple alumni societies of schools and
hospitals; many social groups.

puBLIcATIONS: Co-author of several medical scientific articles.

Few of us realize the importance of the events of the present and |
must admit that on graduation, I didn’t fully appreciate what a great
thing my Harvard education was. Four more tough years at Harvard
Medical School followed before I started my professional career. I had
commuted to Harvard for eight years and I had missed a lot of the
social activities but I hadn’t missed the really important things, however,
Though I have made apologies for other things in my life Ive never
felt that Harvard needed any. The only ching I've heard Harvard ribbed
about was its football teams but these past five years things are different.

After a short internship I entered the U.S. Army as a medical officer
and had an interesting, difficult wartime medical career with an armored
division. Politics began playing an important part in my life from then
on. Disillusionment with FDR, an early idol of mine, was a shattering
experience and I lost confidence in other great experimenters including
JFK.

After the war I went about the business of developing medical skills
and this required another four to five years of practical training. After
this long apprenticeship any young man is ready for a little cued in-
dividualism and I was no exception, Private practice at medicine has
been an exciting, interesting, living, satisfving experience. [| am sure
that Iam in the branch of medicine that I am best equipped for and 1
can truly say I am happy with my work. If evervone worked as hard
in his lifetime I am sure we would have more individualists. But PE can
also see that the welfare state advocates are winning and | am wondering
how my three wonderful children will fare. T hope we don’t confuse
education with intelligence; my parents had no formal educanon but
they did a lot with their lives. I hope we Harvard men with a great
education can use our own heads to help others.

1016 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

RICHARD JACKSON TRAVIS +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: Main Street, Sherborn, Mass.

GEORGE STUART TRICKEY, JR.

         

  

cor . Beata

HOME appRESs: 360 E. Meehan Ave., Philadelphia 19, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: W. B. Saunders Co., W. Washington Square, Philadelphia 5, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Hempstead High School, Hempstead, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; a.m, 1941.

MARRIED: Ruth Patricia Turner, Bryn Mawr 746, June 18, 1949.

occupation: Medical publishing; editor, The Radiological Clinics of North
America; associate editor, The Medical Clinics of North America and The
Surgical Clinics of North America.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors; Sigma Tau Delta
{professional English fraternity) ; American Medical Writers’ Association.

1941-1942: One-man English Department, librarian, dormitory master,
fencing coach, tackling dummy for headmaster in small school for boys,
upstate New York. July, 1942—-July, 1946: Private to sergeant, Infantry;
Signal Corps OCS; signal center officer, England and France. 1946-1948:
Instructor in English, Sampson College, Sampson, New York. 1948-1951:
Instructor in English, Butler University, Indianapolis. 1951-1953: Grad-
uate work in American civilization, University of Pennsylvania. 1953-
1954: Head of English Department, Germantown Academy, Philadelphia.
Since summer of 1954, have been with foremost medical publishing house.
Became associate editor of The Medical Clinics of North America and

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1017

The Surgical Clinics of North America in 1959. Was appointed editor of
a new journal, The Radiological Clinics of North America, in 1962, in
addition to associate editorship of the other two. I admire, respect, sub-
mit to, drink with and even like physicians and surgeons, I am still
deathly afraid of dentists,

Vestryman, Church of the Epiphany, Germantown (Episcopal); dele-
gate to diocesan convention, 1963. Three or four times a year I go to
medical conventions here and there. I still don’t entirely believe in air
travel; invariably the pilot of my plane is the one Shelly Berman made
famous. Except for one summer in England some years ago, we seem to
spend our vacations exploring back roads in eastern Canada, sometimes
with the aid of rackety little coastal freight boats; now that we have a
four-wheel-drive Wagoneer, we’re looking for backer and more back-
ward roads. Sometime hobbies: photography, stamps (postage and trad-
ing), cats, an Afghan hound, tennis, books, food, not necessarily in that
order. Social conviction: The community we live in has become thor-
oughly integrated in the last nine years; we like it more the way it is and
will be than the way it was. Politics: Independent, bloody but unbowed.

DONALD GEORGE TRIER +

 
  

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 3460 Dundel Rd., Northbrook, Ill.

DEWITT SIDNEY TRUE

RTE AE pS
US

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HOME apprgss: 101 Granada Rd. Churchland, Chesapeake, Va.
orrice appress: U.S. Naval Air Station, Oceana, Virginia Beach, Va.
PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: AB 1939; m.p., 1943.
arriep: Anna Mae McMennamin, March 25, 1943, CHILDREN: -
wa Dec. 1, 1943; Sandra Ceridwyn, Oct. 2, 1945; Candace Victorias Jett Ramsay,
Kristen Converse, Oct. 19, 1963. ? - 30, 1948.
occuPATION: Captain, assistant medical officer, Medical Corps, U.S, N av
OFFICES HELD: Assistant chief of Dependents Service and chief of Obsiet i
Gynecological Service, U.S. Naval Hospital, Portsmouth, Va., 195 Tieal or
tive oficer and chief, Dependents Service, U.S. Naval Hospital, Beauto; execu.
1960-62; member, beard of deacons, Sunday School teacher, choir Tt, S.C,
Churchland Baptist Church, 1955-56, 1962-63, Baptist Church of peember,
1960-62; member, board of directors, Portsmouth Community Concer ttt
ciation, 1958-60, Portsmouth-Norfolk County Unit, American Cancer § Asso-
1957-60, 1962-63, Virginia Division, American Cancer Society, 1962-63. °°
MEMBER OF: American Medical Association (fellow); American College of 0
stetricians and Gynecologists (fellow); American Board of Obstetrics b-
Gynecology (diplomate) ; Beaufort Power Squadron; National Philatelic

1018

Society.

After navy internship at National Naval Medical Center and another
year of “stateside” duty, finally got to war in the Pacific on APA’s and
battle cruiser with Task Force 58 for Philippines and Okinawa cam.
paigns, getting scared enough to feel I was a patriot (remember how
we used to feel stared at in civilian clothes those last fifteen months of
medical school? ). At end of war decided to take a flier at new navy
residency in obstetrics and gynecology at Chelsea Naval Hospital, and
found it excellent, especially with Drs. Ben Tenney, Arthur Hertig and
Bob Barker from Harvard Medical School, as consultants. As a result |
had obligated service until 1953 (then ten years’ service). Decided to
stay until I got specialty boards which was delayed until 1957 because of
changes in requirements (then fourteen years’ service and made captain).
Decided to finish twenty years which I did last spring, and by the time
this is published will be “retired” and in the private practice of obstetrics

and gynecology in Portsmouth, Virginia, where a nice office is being
built for me.

Since both Anna Mae (Swedish Baptist in Brockton, Massachusetts)
and I (Congregational) were brought up in families that believed one
should be more than a member of a church, we have remained active in
church as well as community affairs, and some nine years ago joined the
Southern Baptist Church, partly because of the excellent educational
program and partly because we both felt the need of more firm religious
convictions, We feel that our faith has been crystallized in the last mine
years and are thankful that this faith and activity in church have rubbed
off on our three teen-agers; at present five Trues sing in the adult
choir. Our son entered Clemson in 1962 and Sandra entered Mars Hill
College near Asheville, North Carolina, in 1963. Candace is a sophomore
at Churchland High School. Kristen Converse True weighed in at eight

ounds, three ounces on October 10, 1963, is adorable, naturally, looks
like everybody, and is the apple of the collective eye of her brother and
two sisters, as well as of her parents, We are thoroughly enjoying her.

For hobbies I have continued collecting U.S. stamps, have resumed

the hobby of tropical fish, and maintain active interest in classical une
0

folk singing, photography, ornithology and boating. Due to time

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT totg

and maintenance have descended from sailing to power boating.

ar a fiberglass runabout on a trailer meeting the demands ef my
ie d time for fishing, cruising, or water skiing. We have an acre of
im ded Jand in a pleasant suburb where we shall build a larger house
frer I get going tn practice: :
a Living in Virginia and South Carolina during the years of the acute
Negro struggle for equality has been a fascinating experience, having
jived in both the North and the South enough years to feel | understand

th sides; the economic problems of employment for the unskilled and
bo Negro and Caucasian labor forces are going to be with us

semi-skilled fe
for a long time. The economic competition of these two racial groups
5 to my mind the basic issue, rather than social equality, although the

dably separated.

rwo are not rea

 

HOME ADDRESS: 44 Hartley Ave., Princeton, NJ.
orrice apprEss: Dept. of Politics, Princeton University, Princeton, NJ.

PREPARED AT: Southwest High School, Kansas City, Me.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1939. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum lande, \QX9, aw. 1911,

PHD. 1958.
MARRIED: Evgenia Pestretsova, Aug. 21, 1946. catiup: Mareh 12, 1957,

occupation: Political scientist; professor of politics and director of Kucsaea

Studies, Princeton University.
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, American Political Science Awmiatwa’s Canterrace

on Soviet and Communist Studies, 1963-64,
MEMBER OF: American Political Science Association: Ameriwat Phiheophn al
Association (Eastern Division); American Society for Politeal and Legal
Philosophy; American Association for the Advancement of Slave Stusdre
PUBLICATIONS: Philosophy and Myth in Karl Marx, Cambridge Uniersiy Pree
1961; The Soviet Political Mind, Pracget, 19S.

As an undergraduate I chose college teaching as mv carece aim, betle
realizing that through force of circumstance te would take me nearty
twenty years to achieve this goal. After taking graduate work, ios tod
Ing some intensive training in Ruian, LT went mte the OSS and latet tote
the Foreign Service, A two-vear assignment te the Amencan bistascs
" Moscow, starting in carly 144: lengthened inte Nine Vests aya tevilt
0 my marriage toa Russian girl and the Vnpessibility of bee boas nit Kae.
“until after Stalin's death, The ning yeary spanned the perienl fron

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

1020 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

height of the wartime era of good feelings throu

tHe he Fold war in Stalin’s final years to the beginnings «lower depth.
the spring of 1953. The experience did not change my ea e aw |
tions but did influence the field of specialization in subsequent inten,
life. Cadem;

After returning home I completed an unfinished doctorate wt: c
ing research for the RAND Corporation and, finally, became vn
of political science, first at Indiana University, then at the Johns $3
School of Advanced International Studies, and now at Princeton Opking
was another trip to Russia in 1958 as interpreter with Adlai Ste There
and also a summer teaching stint at Harvard in 1959. I was happ venso
that Cambridge, twenty years after, was— or perhaps only seem, ad
not much changed. ed —

le do.
teache;

 

HOME AbDprEss: 177 Brewster Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Herman Goldman, 120 Broadway, New York 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1946.

MARRIED: Emily Shoul, Sept. 18, 1945. CHILDREN: Anne Selma, July 23, 1947;
Elizabeth, June 17, 1950.

occupation: Attorney.

OFFices HELD: Director, since 1956, president, 1958-61, Westchester Symphony
Orchestra, Inc. .

MEMBER OF: Westchester Symphony Orchestra; National Lawyers Club, Washing:
ton, D.C.; Association of the Bar of the City of New York; Harvard Club o
New York; Town Club, Scarsdale, N.Y.

Bringing the data supplied for the Tenth Reunion up to date: __

I was recalled to active duty with the Air Force Office of Special In-
vestigations from February, 1951, to November, 1952, and served in
Geneva — New York, that is. Thereafter, resumed practice of law a
the old stand, moving to Scarsdale on release from active duty. for

Here I found the Westchester Symphony Orchestra an outlet ;
avocational musicians and resumed the playing of the trumpet whic r
had not done seriously since the days with the Pierian and the ates
University Band. Like all similar organizations, this one constantly 14

a struggle for survival and I have found myself fairly deeply invo ve
in the effort.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT rozt

this time I have achieved about as good a standing in my profes-
gonal specialty as I could hope for. However, I do not derive the satis-
faction from that which might be expected, for a number of reasons
which do not belong here.

JAMES LEVERING TYSON

       

HOME appREsS: 7 Buttonwood Lane, Darien, Conn.

orice ADDRESS: IBM World Trade Corp., 575 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., 1939.

marrieD: Elizabeth Bronk Hawn, June 28, 1952. cHt~tpren: Katherine Bronk,
May 25, 1953; Elizabeth Kittredge, Nov. 9, 1954; James Levering, Jr.. June
12, 1958.

occupation: With IBM World Trade Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and New Canaan; Century Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on economics and market research in Fortune, Barron's
Magazine, Printer’s Ink, and other business publications.

My career has not been in exactly the same direction I expected when
I graduated, but not far different. I have been involved in economics and
market research, especially in the international field, and for the past
four years I have also worked extensively with electronic computers and
their use in these areas. For a year before the war and twelve years
thereafter I was with Time-Life International. For the past two years
I have been with the Simulmatics Corporation, a small firm specializing
in computer applications to market research, economics, opinion research,
etc,

_ During the war I was in the Navy assigned to OSS and engaged in some
Interesting work in economic analysis on bombing target selection for
the Air Force, in London and Naples, and later in Paris.

I have found this a fascinating ficld of endeavor and my Harvard edu-
cation has been more practical than I expected. In spite of same over-
Claiming by economists on the predictive power of this science, and umi-
lar overclaiming on the effectiveness of computers in this fcld in recene
years, [ think the science is on the verge of some major breakthroughs

I married Elizabeth Hawn of Albany, New York, on June 28, 19¢2,
and we have been living happily ever after, We have had checee children,
two girls, and then after considerable suspense, a boy, whom Ff fully ew
Pect to be a Harvard half-back or stroke of the crew. Asa native New

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

1022 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Yorker, I have stubbornly managed to continue working her

kids got bigger and filled up our apartment, we moved 5b

Ut as th

to Dari e
necticut, where we now have a house we love and hope to Stay in £ On.
rest of our lives unless the H Bomb or a job change blasts us out ot the

In politics and religion I might make an interesting case fo,
ologist because I have become more conservative in the former a d Soci.
liberal in the latter since I left college. I began to vote Repu bi ore
1948 in revolt at the administration’s China policy and other mn acan in
and have done so fairly consistently ever since. In religion I be asures,
Unitarian around the same time. I was surprised and pleased came a
that Harvard and Boston had been the hub of Unitarianism © fing
United States, a fact I didn’t realize while at college. We now Wn the
beautiful modern Unitarian church in Westport (where the choir end a
rected by a Radcliffe graduate in the best A.T. Davison tradition) More
academic economists are Democrats at heart, but I am of the o aot
that the soundest economic theory supports the basic Rep Pinion

ublican tenets
of a balanced budget, sound dollar, and the largest possible scope for q

free market economy.

I took up skiing some years after college and this became my favorite
sport, reinforced by the fact that most of my dates with my wife-to-be
were on ski trips. All the family has now taken up skiing. I also hope
to get the kids involved in sailing on Long Island Sound as they get older,
I notice the older I get the more I enjoy watching football and this is

not only because it has been more fun to watch Harvard in recent years,
Late flash: As of January, 1964, I am taking a new position — with the
IBM World Trade Corporation in New York.

FREDERIC EDWARD ULEN

    

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: 4.B., 1939; a.m. (Univ. of New Hamp-
shire), 1949, oo

MARRIED: Nancy Rogers, Smith ’39, June 19, 1941. cumpren: Anne Ware, Nov. 4,
1943; Deborah Hamilton, April 18, 1947; Frederic Edward, Jr., Nov. 18, 1951;
David Rogers, April 28, 1957,

9CCUPATION: Education; teacher of En

’ . . ® ad-
glish, director of studies, assistant he
master, St. Mark’s School.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1023

BER or: National Association of Independent Schools; Independent School

M ‘Agsociation of Massachusetts; New England Association of Colleges and

Secondary Schools; College Entrance Examinations Board: etc.

| have had the immense satisfaction of leading a life that becomes

more and more full as the years have passed. The year after graduation
[ spent partly in Graduate School at Harvard and partly as a tutor, but
rhe next year saw me started on the path of teaching. Mv experience at
the lower school of Milton Academy gives me the chance to boast that
[ have taught every grade from fourth through twelfth — for what that
., worth. In June of 1941, Nancy (Rogers of Belmont, daughter of
Herbert Rogers, 10) _and I were married. We both started to teach
at Eaglebrook School in Deerfield the next fall and so undertook to cope
with the million and one things that a boarding school teacher is supposed
to know and to do: teaching, coaching, running a dormitory, putting
on plays, publishing newspapers, studying, and so on and on. ;

By 1943 the ominous rumblings of a draft board and the nagging of a
conscience combined to send me to the recruiting office to enlist in the
Tenth Division — Ski ‘Troops. That experience with the Army was a
chastening one, caught in the anonymous and often apparently malig-
nant bureaucracy of a gigantic organization. Naturally enough, after
training a sufficient length of time to cope to some extent with moun-
tains and winter warfare, I was sent to the University of Nebraska, of all
places, to learn, of all things, French. When the ASTP program folded.
back I went to Colorado but only long enough for the Army to decide
that my training and talents, with those of about 2000 others, were best
suited for duty elsewhere. The elsewhere turned out to be the South
Pacific, New Caledonia, to be specific. Fortunately for me the study
of French paid off, and I was kept at headquarters command as an
interpreter and odd-job man until sent back to the United States some-
time in 1945 to learn how to become a second heurenant, Infantry, at
Fort Benning. From there to Camp Blanding, Florida, training Infantry
replacements until I was separated from the Service in 1946 when acting
as battalion adjutant.

I spent the rest of that year commuting between Deerfield and Cain
bridge where Nancy was teaching and where I could learn to know
Anne whom I had not seen until she was about two, We spent three vears
after that at Eaglebrook again and then | decided that Uo needed both
older children to teach and some graduate study. The next year |
worked for an A.M. at New Hampshire and coached three sports at
Exeter while living in Portsmouth, It was a busy and wondertul veae,
From there we moved to St, Mark's where U still am, teaching Baylsh,
being director of studies, and four vears ago Twas appomnted: asncant
eadmaster, Six years ago 1 was lucky cnough te spend a vear abroad
ona Fulbright exchange at Shrewsbury School in Shropshire, one of the
great English public schools, We enjoved every minute of it, made a
host of friends, and can't wait to get back. Frnglish whools are ditterene,
ut boys sce the same everywhere, There they don't work as hard
as do our boys but, oddly enough, they seem to Know more bey the
time they are eighteen,

certainly can’t complain about my life. Te may be exacting snd
Ume-consuming but it’s an exciting workd of ideas and pemonabees |

sree mage

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

1024 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939
find myself constantly challenged and liking it, both for

. t .
rewards of teaching and for the challenge itself. I fin d, too Obvions

ingly enough, under this stimulus I have personally moved ir two atest
tions at once —left (I guess) in politics and right in religion. © Irec.
fairly staid Republican, I admit to being a committed Democrat.“ a
a fairly vague Protestant, I admit to being a committed Christian
lean strongly in the direction of traditionally orthodox, High Che
Episcopalianism. So that is my life. I teach, I learn, I get a chanew
exercise every day, I orgamize the academic life of 270 people, in fo
summer | play farmer and carpenter on our place in New ampshi, €
and I try to be a husband and a father. It’s a good life. Ire,

WALTER NICHOLS UNDERHILL

  

HOME aAppress: 22 W. 77th St., New York 24, NLY.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.
MARRIED: Dagmar L. T. Brodberg, February, 1954,

LEONARD SEIDMAN UNGER

 

     

HOME apprEss: American Embassy, APO 152, S i Calif.; 12701 Circle
Drive, Glen Hills, Rockville, Md. (permanent) Francisco, _

OFFICE AppRESS: U.S. Embassy, Vientiane, Laos.
PREPARED AT: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio.

ponerse nseemenae reteset A d

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1oz§

COLLECE: 1935-1939. DECREE: A.B., magna cum laude. 1939.
years IN” ne Axon, Dec. 18, 1944. cuitpreN: Deborah, Dec. 1, 1945: Philip
ch 20, 1948; Andrew Leonard, Jan. 6, 1950; Anne Thomas, June 20)
ie] Howden, Aug. 11, 1955. .
U.S. Ambassador ee ae service officer Class I).
. Vice-president, Harvar lub of Thailand, 1961-64 i
CES eety Alumni Association, Bangkok, 1960-62. 2 American
On ‘American Association of Geographers; American Geographical So-
MEMBER "'c-am Society; American Foreign Service Association; Phi Beta Kappa;
cic’ 2.6 Royale des Sciences Naturelles du Laos; Mekong Society.
, Articles in professiona geographic magazines concerning: “The
He ein outh East Asia,” 1944, “The Economy of the Free Territory of
iste » 1947, “Rural Settlement in the Campania.” 1953: in Focus issue on

-. oreparation) 3 article on “Functions of the Political Adviser and
Lace Slations with the Commander,” 1961.

The essential point is that life since graduation has turned out to be
‘cher, more full of excitement and satisfaction than I had ever expected
ae ‘in college; I hope it will go on that way.
ene richness has come in the stimulation and beauty found in people

d places around the world, enjoyed in company with a sensitive and
ell gent companion and, more recently, with our children as well.
Excitement is provided by living abroad and the job that goes with it,
which never fails to offer its weekly if not daily crisis. And the main
satisfactions are derived from a loving and lovely wife and five children,
each of whom promises to be, in his or her own way, both a good
person and a personality.

*« GEORGE SYLVESTER VIERECK, JR.

(ey

  
  

   

oI

non April 23, 1918, New York, N.Y. parents: George Sylvester ¥ iereck, Margaret
ein,

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: s.8., magna cum laude, 1939.
HARVARD BROTHER: Peter Viereck, ‘37.

dteD: Killed in action, March 24, 1944, in Italy.

George Sylvester Viereck, Jr, spent two years at the baw School
fore volunteering for service in the Army. Ele requested over as
rombat duty and as an infantry corporal in the sth Divison of the
can Army saw action at Anzio Beachhead. Ble was billed in action ard

Orated posthumously, He was survived by his parents

1026 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

JOHN CHARLES WAHLKE

SETS ASE TE REE Nye Proemerme en

   

saline ine en Beis sen reine 3

   

TI OE Ye OCI TNO YELL: * TID

 

rs

HOME ADDRESS: 175 Cottonwood Drive, Williamsville, N.Y. 14221.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Political Science, State University of New York at
Buffalo, 142 Winspear Ave., Buffalo, N.Y. 14214.

PREPARED AT: Western Hills High School, Cincinnati, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m, 1947;
PH.D. 1952,

MARRIED: Virginia Joan Higgins, Dec. 1, 1943. cHiLDREN: Janet Claire, Nov. 23,
1948; Dale Albert, July 6, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Professor of Political Science.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors; International Political
Science Association; American Political Science Association; Southern
Political Science Association.

PuBLicaTIONS: The Causes of the American Revolution, Boston, D. C. Heath & Co.,
1950, 1962; Loyalty in a Democratic State, Boston, D. C. Heath & Co., 1952;
(with Heinz Eulau) Legislative Behavior, The Free Press, Glencoe, Il1., 1959;
(with Heinz Eulau, William Buchanan, LeRoy C. Ferguson) The Legislative
System: Explorations in Legislative Behavior, John Wiley & Sons, Inc., New
York, 1962.

World War II and waiting for it occupied me, as it did many Thirty-
niners, for a large-looking but small-feeling fraction of the first quarter
century since graduation. Before putting on the private’s uniform in
March, 1942, | spent almost two years in the waffic department of The
Crosley Corporation in Cincinnati and another half year or so in the
traffic department of Joseph E. Seagram & Sons in Lawrenceburg,
Indiana. Duly drafted into the Field Artillery, then duly commissioned
via O.CS., I eventually wound up an air observation pilot for the Artil-
lery, served two years in the E.T.O. with the 18th Artillery Battalion,
and was rewarded with an Air Medal and two Oak Leaf Clusters and,
at the end of 1945, return to inactive duty. The best thing the Army
did was to permit and bless my marriage to Joan Higgins of Pittsburg,
Kansas, six weeks before Army orders apparently heading me for do-
mestic duties were changed to send me to the P.O.E.

Matured by overseas experience and enriched by the G.I. Bill, I man-
aged to get back in time to return to Harvard for graduate work in
January, 1946. This led to an A.M. in 1947 and the doctorate in 1952,
but the course to those degrees was still dogged by the Army. A sum-
mer’s active duty as consultant at the Command and General Staff
School in 1947 was interesting and actually germane to my professional

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1027

interests. But an “order” recalling me to active duty for the Korean
War was neither of these. However, to my professional interest in
government, I added a genuine love for bureaucracy when papers went
astray and my active-duty physical examination was followed by two
years of absolute silence from higher headquarters. (I later learned that
one of these headquarters listed me on their records as actually in service
in Korea.)

In spite of these pseudo-military tribulations, normal professional life
for me began then and has continued since. I taught at Amherst College
from 1949 to 1953. After a summer at Dartmouth in the first $.S.R.C.
Institute for Mathematics in the Social Sciences, 1 went to Vanderbilt,
where I taught from 1953 to 1963, except for several periods of leave-of-
absence for one purpose or another. The year 1959-60 I spent at Berke-
ley as a visiting faculty member of the University of California. From
1956 through 1961 all my summers and most of the year 1957 were spent
in research activities which took me to Estes Park, Colorado, Evanston,
Illinois, Claremont, California, and New York for extended periods in
successive summers. During 1961-62, Vanderbilt University for me was
in France, where the family enjoyed life while I served as co-director
helping to initiate a semester-abroad program at Aix-en-Provence. We
spent a pleasant month in Nice while I filled a Fulbright spot in the
Nice Seminar for Political and Social Science.

In June, 1963, with considerable reluctance, I left Vanderbilt to join
a newly-created Political Science Department at the newly-public, and
therefore newly-rich and interesting State University of New York at
Buffalo (formerly the private University of Buffalo). After all these
years, the ice-skates I used before going to Harvard are back tn use.

PHILIP HULET WALKER

     

HOME apprEss: 115 Sargent Rd., Brookline 46, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 170 Morton St. Jamaica Plain W, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Blake School, Hopkins, Mina.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1935-1939, DrGHERS: $.6.. 1039: ao. 19K,

MARRIED: Ruth Ludlow Hagler, June [4 1941, crtuonis: Thomas Aarlew, New &
1942 (m. Nancy Adair Nash, Oct. 26, 19630; Susanne Hulet, Kad bide ‘te

Dec. 19, 1944; William Hudson, Nov. 1, 1918; Juha Tambiva, Jan, 28, 190
HARVARD SON: Thomas Barlow Walker, 64.

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

1028 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

occupaTION: Urologist. __
Trustee, Rivers Country Day School, Weston; trustee «

OFFICES HELD: t e
tary of corporation, Institute of Contemporary Art, Boston; truste, Secr,
& Bertha H. Walker Foundation, Minneapolis; trustee, Friends of “Fchie D,
ham. Taming.
f Boston; The Country Club, Brooklin
es:

memBeR OF: Harvard Club o
County Medical Soctety;
New England Section, Am

Since my graduate school training and military activities
included in the 15th and zoth Reports, I shall summarize neve one
muy

briefly here.

1939-40 Harvard Graduate School: organic chemistry.

1940-44 Harvard Medical School. —

1944-45 Peter Bent Brigham Hospital: surgery.

1945-46 U.S. Navy as medical officer at Newport, Rhode Island

Okinawa and Bikini. - .
1946-53 Completion of Brigham residency in surgery, two years as

American Cancer Society fellow and urology resident.
1053-55 Completion of Navy service at Newport, Rhode Island, and

Naval Air Facility, Port Lyautey, French Morocco.
Since the last Report, our activities have continued much the same as

outlined previously. I continue as full time urologist at the Lemuel
Shattuck Hospital, a state hospital for chronic disease, rehabilitation and
cancer. I continue to see a variety of chronic and acute urological
complications of many diseases, and have been particularly interested in

paraplegic and quadriplegic patients and their problems in and out of
rospitals. I have conunued at the Free Hospital for Women in Brook-

ine in the Outpatient Urological Clinic with an occasional in-patient
or operation. Although still carried as a staff member at the Peter
ent Brigham Hospital, this is largely a courtesy to me.
The family has grown older and bigger as expected. Thomas was
cently married in Minneapolis, my home town, where he has been
<ing a year working out of his junior year at Harvard. He hopes to
urn at midyears this year if the deans agree. He married Nancy
sh of Minneapolis in October, 1963, the daughter of old friends,
‘ar and Nancy Nash of Deephaven, Minnesota. Suzanne (Sally) 1s
phomore at Radcliffe, living in Barnard Hall and appearing to enjoy
time there immensely. William is in the third class (sophomore
school) at Noble and Greenough in Dedham, Massachusetts, also
r well and appearing to enjoy himself in academic and athletic pur-
Julia is in the fifth class at Winsor School and 1s successfully
x with Latin.

h has become active in alumnae fund raising at Radcliffe recently,
she appears to enjoy and expedite creditably. We are por
‘ed in the various schools the children have attended, Park Schoo :
and Greenough and Winsor; plus the Rivers Country Day sche
ton on my part, recently moved and built on a new site. T é
s were completed despite my chairing the buildings comm
abysmal ignorance of the problems when we started. We a d
rested in The Institute of Contemporary Art, recently relocate
>wbury Street in Boston, where my interest 1s outshone by ™Y

‘o raise funds from likely prospects.

American Medical Association; A > Norg

. . ‘ es : o]

erican Urological Association. ’ Culapian Club®
:

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT torg

Otherwise, we drive car pools, blow snow, mow lawns, and spend as
ach time in the summer in Provincetown as city obligations permit.
return to Morocco again, but have not found the ime and

e to
Wey PF multancously.

RICHARD DEXTER WALKER, JR.

Soo emery t ie ok

ee.

     

—

we.
nome ADDRESS: Route 1, Box 184, Helena, Ala.
oFFIcE ADDRESS: Liberty National Life Insurance Co., P.O. Box 2612, Birmingham,

Ala.
prepaRED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936, 1937-1938. DECREES: GLU. (American Coll, ot Life
Underwriters), 1958; diploma in Agency Management (ibid.), 1900.

marrieD: Dorothy Ann Proctor, Dec. 21, 1940. cHiLoreN: Anne, June 6, 1912 (m,
Gerald M. Roberts, Feb. 2, 1963); Thomas Dexter, April 17, 1937, Scott

Proctor, Oct. 13, 1955.
OCCUPATION: Supervisor of advanced underwriting, Training Department, Liberty

National Life Insurance Company; specializing in advanced training, tax

matters, etc.
OFFICES HELD: Secretary, treasurer and vice-president, Birmingham General Agents

and Managers Association, 1958-60; vice-president, Birmingham Chapter,

Chartered Life Underwriters, 1963-64.
MEMBER OF: Birmingham Association of Life Underwriters: General Agents and

Managers Association; Birmingham Chapter, American Society of Chartered
Life Underwriters.

My first noteworthy accomplishment in life was acquiring a fine
Wellesley wife from the deep South, Living in Dedham when the war
started, we moved to Dorothy’s home in Nashville, Tennessce, before |
left for two and a half years of Army duty in Fneland, and then stayed
on in Nashville after the war, moving to Birmingham in 19s.
Employed in the office equipment. business before the war, |) con:
tinued in this work until entering the life insurance business in t9¢ 4.
After five years as an agent I spent several years as agency manager
and training director for two fine companics, and in tyA: poined mv
Present company in the home office working with eur aee-man field

Ofce on special cases, business insurance cases and so forth, a teally

ascinating and challenging job.

1030 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

JAMES GORMLEY WALSH

    

HOME AbpreEss: 53 Trewbridge Ave., Newton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 818 Harrison Ave., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Frances Jane Reilly, June 14, 1947. cHtLpREN: Megan, Aug. 30, 1950;
Julia, March 2, 1952; James Gormley, Jr., Oct. 18, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Hospital administration; deputy superintendent, Boston City Hos-
pital.

OFFICES HELD: Naval Institute proceedings.

MEMBER OF: Pi Eta Club.

Graduation in 1939 found me and five of our ROTC classmates
entering the U.S. Navy. Two fine years of duty in the “old” Navy
and then the five years that changed all our lives. In 1946, the decision
had to be made — stay in, or get out. Seven years of enjoyable living
swayed me and I became a career man. Fran and I were married in 1947
and for twelve years traveled the globe with our three Navy juniors.
Twenty-year retirement came in 1959 followed by a brief sojourn in
the business world. Now it’s hospital administration for the future and
I find it challenging, fruitful and rewarding.

Newton, Massachusetts, 1 is home and we enjoy it. It’s a family life.
The summer vacations, the side trips, the birthdays, the holidays — all
with the children. Someday when they have grown, Fran and | would
enjoy revisiting old haunts and renewing old acquaintances. But right
now this is for us.

vt Mi

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1O3L

GARDNER COLBY WALWORTH, JR.+

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: Salisbury, Conn.

rege chang

PETER WARING

    
   

  

ah aaa abe lilaathe D seth cal

ini ab

ace halls BOY:

HOME AppREss: 8 St. John’s Rd., Cambridge 38. Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Episcopal Theological School, 99 Brattle Su, Cambridge 38, Mae.
PREPARED AT: Kingsley School, Essex Falls, NJ.

"YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. nercrees: a.p., 1939; aw. 1947; awa Una

Theological Seminary School of Sacred Music).

MARRIED: Eleanor Gotwals, May 13, 1942. crttoren: Stephen Peter, Over. lo, 190);
Edward Hileman, June 2, 19:48.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor in church niusic, organist and choie director,
Episcopal Theological School.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, Boston Chapter, Amerwan Gadd
of Organists (chairman of broadcasting committee for radio revitale 1908 62),

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professor: American Muaseohigr
cal Society; College Music Society; American Guild of Organise.

PUBLICATIONS: “Anthems for the Christian Year.” with J. Scharfenberg, Sure:
Birchard, 1957; “God be merciful unte us” (Peal 679, BO OL Schiemer, Fun,
article on Protestant Music, for Grolier Enevelopedia, March, Pant, several
choral compositions and arrangements in manuscript,

Having majored in music at Harvard E returned tw teach French an
English at hingslcy School, The follow ing vear | taught ocatery and
public speaking at Mercersburg Academy, What was more Hitportant,

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

1032 HARVARD CLASS OF 193 9

I met my future bride at Wilson College in Chamber b
me fted in July of 1941, I attended Officer Candidate Pe
(In the same barracks was Robert Goh choo} No

i en.) :

y

.

vania. Dra
10, Fort Benning. ;
principal assignment was as a communications officer in tank d
cadre units in Texas. Before World War II was Over, tank qe Over
commissioned personnel were reassigned and sent Overseas, [ €Stroye,.
bombs were dropped before we reached Pearl Harbor enroute to peadl
Philippine Islands. After four years and ten months I was free to denn
Ide

what to do with my life. 4 oo, h

Teaching in college seemed more inviting than the seco
An A.M. was a must. So I headed for Harvard via a GJ. Bale level,
at Beaver College, Jenkintown. There I started learning to play net
€

ipe organ. Harvard A.M. struggles made me realize I was not .
pry well qualified to pursue musicology and the inevitable ph ttce-

In 1947 1 went to Bates as the first full-time instructor in musi
Extracurricular duties were a bit strenuous: choir, glee club, orchet®
and football band. My organ training under Lawrence Apgar whe
I was doing graduate work at Harvard stood me in good stead at Ba , e
and ever since. Enroute to a Sacred Music Doctorate at Union Theolo i.
cal Seminary, we lived in Sherborn, Massachusetts, while I filled in One
year for the regular lecturer in music, choir director. The high point
at Wellesley was conducting Bach’s “Magnificat in D,”

While in residence at Union we lived at Shanks Village, Orangeburg
New York. My strongest impressions of Union include the dedicated
spirit of the late Hugh Porter, the enthusiasm and skill of both Ethel
Porter and Normand Lockwood.

As minister of music at the Central Baptist Church, Hartford, Con-
necticut, from 1951 to 1953, I gained invaluable experience and also
found time to complete the exacting Doctoral requirements in perform-
ance and composition. Episcopal Theological School, Cambridge, was
looking for one person to do the work previously carried out by several
part-time people. After trying me out on a quarter-time assignment,
E.T.S. appointed its first full-time instructor in music, organist, and
choir director. The Warings moved from Tobacco Valley, East Wind-
sor, Connecticut. Ten years later the pressure of carrying part-time
Sunday work as an organist-choirmaster became too heavy. This Re-
union year is the first time in sixteen that I have not had two jobs. It also
coincides with my second sabbatical leave (spring term) which will be
spent studying and writing at Union Theological Seminary.

In politics, I have remained a staunch Democrat and voted in all local
and national elections, Advertising campaigns which imply that success
is measured by position, possessions, selection of the manly product, an
the like cannot compare with rather amusing soft-sell, caricature com:
mercials, When prominent sports figures say it only counts when y®
win, one realizes that pastimes are a business proposition and that de. be
idols are setting a poor example for our youth, Could this attitu oo
at least a partial cause of the poor sportmanship witnessed in high sc

and college contests?

basket-

I have thought about the game, whether it be baseball, tennis; ponent
0

ball, or the game of life. Sportsmanship, consideration of the OPP”
frequently get neglected. Each game can only be played once

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1033

; how many post mortems or viewings on films. The how we
s lost in the what was the result! Sometimes it is hard to be

matte
play Bo" th the results of your own perform Th ti
isfied wit C wn pe ance. € question looms
er as we get older. Can we live with ourselves? Have we spoiled
larg children? Have we given them a true sense of values? Are thev
ov wing up? Have we continued to grow? ‘
8

JOSHUA MORDECAI WASSERMAN

    

HOME ADDRESS: 47 Cabot St., Newton 58, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1265 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., 1939; D.M.D., 1943.

marrieD: Rona Brown, Dec. 22, 1940. CHILDREN: Aaron Theodore, Aug. 10, 1943;

Deborah Brown, Feb. 3, 1946.
occupation: Dentist; owner-director, Camp Naticook (an independent, resident

co-ed children’s summer camp).

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Congregation Kehillath Israel Brotherhood: treas-
urer, Edward Devotion School P.T.A.; chairman, Brookline-Brighton-Newtoa
Zionist Youth Commission, Temple Kehillath Israel Youth Commission,

MEMBER OF: Alpha Omega Dental Fraternity; Massachusetts Dental Association:
Greater Boston Dental Association; New England Camping Association: New
Hampshire Camp Directors Association; American Camping Association:
Association of Private Camps.
My first four of the twenty-five years between Eraduation from Har-

vard and today were spent at the Harvard School of Dental Medicine.

During that time, I was married to Rona Brown whom I had met at a

co-ed children’s camp in New Hampshire, where we were head counse-

ors. After my junior year at the Dental School, I spent a summer doing

research work in biochemistry under Professor Harry Trimble at the
Harvard Medical School.

_ Upon graduation, by courtesy of the U.S. Navy, PE had a year of
Internship at the Eastman Dental Dispensary for children in Rochester,
New York. In August of that year (1943), our son, Aaron TPhendore,
Was born. Shortly afterwards, I received orders from the Navy to

Proceed to Navy Pier in Chicago, Two vears there were followeel ty
. e + . * *.
yin San Francisco that turned up an

a short period of waiting for a shi
orfolk, Virginia, There followed aterm of sea duty aboard the ar,

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

1034 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

craft carrier, SS Mission Bay,

during which time, a daughter Debor h
; a
was born. ;

i Angeles, with my wif
After the war, I spent a year in Los Angeles, Y wife and ct-
dren, where I passed California Dental State Boards. Then, we retunte
to Boston and family and friends in time for me to spend ed

: m
summer home as director of Agassiz Village, the then Burroughs Newt
boys Foundation Camp. After that we settled down to family life s
Brookline, Massachusetts, with a dental office on Bay State Road, course.
of study at Harvard and Tufts and part-time teaching at Tufts Dental
School. .

The following years were spent with family, friends, dental Practice
P.T.A., Temple and Zionist Youth work, United Fund, Burroughs News.
boys Foundation, dental clinic, Lions Club, dental associations. This
was interspersed with handball at the “Y (I’ve now graduated t.
squash) on a fairly regular basis and tennis and swimming during the
summer. My hobbies then and now were music on the listening end

(symphony, concerts) and playing end (piano and, more recent}

accordion), books, theatre, travel (both with and without the children)
and camping.

About fifteen ye

ars ago | moved my office to its present location at
1265 Beacon Street in Brookline, Massachusetts, where I’ve enjoyed a

successful general practice of dentistry. Eight years ago 1 purchased

Camp Naticook (where I had met my wife) which we run as a private,

resident camp for children. This added camping organizations to our

list of activities with conventions, seminars, round tables and study.
Three years ago, the town of Merrimack, New Hampshire, in which
our camp is located, built a Medical Center in which I installed a suite
of dental offices. Their inability to locate a dentist and the proximity
of the Medical Center to Camp Naticook led to my spending part time
practising dentistry in Merrimack. We have a home at camp and that,
plus the fact that we have always worked closely together as a family,
makes it a little easier than it sounds to juggle two practices in two
states, plus the camp.

Right years ago we purchased our home in Newton, Massachusetts,
and our children were graduated from Newton High School. At pres-
ent, our son is a junior at the University of Bridgeport and our daughter
is a freshman at Sarah Lawrence College. Now, my wife and I find our-
selves entering the dawn of a new era: a life without our two children.

At present writing, the situation is a new one and we miss our children
badly. This is the price you pay for “

This is togetherness.” But we know the
separation is right for them and for us. They are starting a new adven-
ture. So are we. The next twenty-five years will tell that story. We
hope it will be as happy and as full of satisfactions as the past twenty-five.

 

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH RAY WATKINS

   

HOME ADDRESS: 38 Fearing Rd., Hingham, Mass,

FFICE ADDRESS: Hutchins & Wheeler, 294 Washington St., Boston, Mass.
REPARED at; Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREES: A.B., 1939; Lup., 1942,

Nancy Howard, March 10, 1946.

marnteD: Betty G. Lewis, June 14, 1941. cumpren: Linda Howard, July 13,
occupation: Lawyer.

orrices HELD: Member, Hingham School Committee, 1951-34: chairman.
Elementary School Planning & Construction Committee, 1936-63; prews
Harvard Club of Hingham, 1960-63; treasurer. Hingham Republican |
Committee, since 1958; chairman, Hingham Red Feather Campana, .
South Metropolitan Division, Greater Boston Community Fund Campaign, |

memseR OF: Cohasset Golf Club; Hingham Yacht Club; Harvard Club of Hingh
Newcomen Society in North America.

With a stream of cards from the Reunion Committee reminding
that my twenty-five-year saga has not been received and a consciennic
wife nudging, needling and threatening to act as a ghost, | reahze ths:
must overcome “white paper” neurosis and get that first line down
writing. Whoever says, “It hardly seems possible that it has bee
twenty-five years,” must be suffering an illusion. | have grav haw (sta
hairs though), two college-age girls and a wife of rwency-two vears &
good standing to prove it.

A quarter of a century ago in the fall of 1939, | began a theee-vea:
term at the Law School (Harvard, of course). I was able to graduate
iN 1942 without interruption for military service. For some reaen the
Armed Forces could find no use for a severely astigmatic law student.

My legal studies were interrupted for marital rather than martial reawne

N June of 1941, with the proceeds of my convertuble and some letover
heirlooms ‘

from family attics, 1 see up housekeeping in a Cambrndye
apartment with one Betty G. Lewis. ‘This has proved to be a reawsvatly

Successful venture — at Icast we are still living together as man and wile.
s ] remember, we di

19, d go through a marriage ceremony on June 14,
qi.
After

t Staduating from law school, | started in ay a young law ver at
© Usual salary of $i.s00 with the Besten fem af Hurchin & Wheeler
the oldest in New England, having been founded in tase by nee

’rthouth men), With our elder daughter, Linda, approaching: m few

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

1034
rhing foe a house in the suf
, 1455 we searted besvkineg urbe
eral ACIP RCT IVE poceecs costing about $8c00 because I fele charred
wtated wil pres would noe base. We eventuaily bought» the
mane m bogham m sayy GC crt more than $4,000) and cee
raged tes get shor Of 3 gros sree apt e of $5. 2000. 7M hay
ene renin fo Hingham, § have been a conmusrene Violator ot
Joene (7 Ehow shalt noe comimurrce™>, 5 hav the
fused Camenttee campaigns and wa e bers,
1054 Fo was chairman of , Crt
Mize, ria

ft evenrh Canmauns

mricdved ws se beat ten
elected te the Sabuol Comsutree in
. munurtce and am prevently a member of the ©

Bessie birge ot
aes ton the Pimgharn Pubbe Se howls, f have served as Charman
n Community bund Campagna and worked on Nutnerine
wal ACTIN tae

rag har

ne bes burned anc United Fund campagns, Ovher bh

Rave wnehided prewdent, Town Atiury Comouttee, member, bly
VA oree Comunrre, preudent, Blarvard Club of Hingham, treasurer, Re
publ an Daven Cominuttce, co-chairman, Cirwens Zoning Counties,
pad member, Beard of the Elingham Civic Orc hevera. :
1 gues Fuse be in some sore of aut, Phave been married ty the
cane gil ame fost, Phave been with Blurchins & \S heeler tNCe tug,
(Deas made a partner on tosg), and Uhave been living in Hingham ance
tog? Plowever, «ma reawnably happy and enjes able rue. My egal
work mw interesting and enjovable, and suburban lite in Elinghain seems
te agree with us Summer vacations give an opportunity for a change
id wenery, We are both enthusiastic about travel. In igs7 we had 4
wv week escaten in Burope, mm igte we visired the West Coast and the
Canahon Ren hoes, and lave sunuver Prook che entire fanuly on a seven-
week vecanon in Purope touring through France, Etaly and Su itverland.

When traveling Phwk the the tv pical tourne with a camera and hyhe
yetures evervwhere we go. Fach trip

meter aroumd my neck mapping
resulta in about tenn colored Slides which pernut us to relive our trip
aml bere our frvembs,

fa addinea to being a camera bug, beok reader and jazz enthusiast,
Pama finance and errance golfer who keeps on playing through
fun and wow, For me an ideal fall weekend consists of playing golf
on Sacunday and Sunday and watching the New York Giants on Sunday

afternoon tilly,

As foe the future, Pam opamisac., P don't think there will be a war
with Runa, In anochee twenty-five years, [suspect Russia will be our
wha ally ina cold war ay sine China, In the meantime, with our elder
daughter at a French university in Nice and our younger daughter
ppiving for carly admission at Smith, [am looking forward to the
Sunwet Vears” with more travel and berter golf.

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1037

 

gue SODARAS: 109 Billings St, Sharon, Mass.
garth ADORESS: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley St., Boston,

Mowe Tilton School, Tilton, N.H.

pec aatd at: s* ‘
yaane IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.
gsenea: Anne E. Wright, Aug. 11, 1945. cuitpren: Thomas Wright, June 24,

148; Elizabeth Ann, April 21, 1953.
ecranos: Agency secretary, John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company.

emnces weLD: Various positions in church, civic and business organizations, such
wm: member and chairman, School Committee, Boy Scout Troop chairman,
Laited Fund positions of various sorts, chairman of board of deacons, Congre-
gational Church, Regional Vocational High School Planning Board member, etc.

| have just reread my comments in previous Class Reports to see if I
could sense a feeling of progress or accomplishment. It developed that
this reaction was noticeable, but an equal sense of frustration was also
present. This is disconcerting but also natural as I assume that I join
many others in being somewhat less than satisfied about myself, the
country, the world, and things in general. J guess that my last twenty-
five years can best be characterized as being good but not good enough.
After an uneventful year or so following graduation, I became in-
volved in the U.S. Air Force for about three and a half years. More
than two of these were spent with a Fighter Wing in various countries
around the Mediterranean area. I ended my military career with the
rank of major. These years were interesting, eventful, educational, and
from time to time somewhat unpleasant. The chief reaction to all this
¥as a pride in American initiative and impatience which are so excep-
tonal compared to these traits in other nationalities.
At the end of the war I joined the Management Development Program
of the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company at its home office
in Boston. After a due course of time I became associated with the
administrative and financial aspects of the company’s general agency
Operations and have worked in various capacities in that area since that
hme, My current position is that of agency secretary. It has been
interesting, challenging, pleasant and frustrating. Business trips have
taken me to all parts of the country, and the opportunity to meet and
found sin many people has been most rewarding. (Incidentally, I have
at my previous experience as Adams House secretary has had

1034 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

no particular effect on my ability to function as the Hancock's agency
secretary. Frankly, | would racher be Adams House secretary again. }

or the past fifteen years we have lived in this small bur pleasant
Bearon suburb, Pam nota chronic “joiner” but apparently my con
scoence tells me that I “should de my part.” As a result, I find mvvelf
conmnually involved in town, church and civic affairs. Chief among
these have been in the local educational field. I have enjoyed serving
on the School Comnuttee for several vears, including a three-year term
as charman, The planning of a new Regional Vocational High School
has she been interesting and time-consuming. Trying to keep on top of
a fapally expanding school populaon has been quite a challenge. In
addin, there has been the usual collection of positions and responw-
biities in such things as Boy Scour, Community Fund drives, church
organizations etc. My wife i just as much involved in simular activities
as Lam in these. PE gucw we are just a couple of good active suburhanites

Que two youngsters, ages ten and fifteen, are also fairly typical subur-
han chikiren. ft not neccesary te discuss the joys, sorrows and prob-
lems of rearing children as Fam sure that they have been experienced
by mow members of the Class in one form or another, In this day and
age, obvious that one cannot be sure about very many things, but
nevertheless in retrospect Pam sure that my four years at Harvard ts
something Fo will never regret noe forget. It provided a base which has
remained solid over the years,

GEORGE FAIRFIELD WATTS

 

wars March 3K 1917, New York, N.Y. parents: Malcolm Stuart McNeal Watts,
NK Eluabeth Forbes.

Prervnes At: Trinity Schowd, New York, N.Y,

TEARS IN COELECE: 1945-1938, 1039 1080, pEcREE: ag, cam laude, 1939(40).

manane: Mary Hughes. cuionsy: Edward; George, Jr.

pap: June 1a IN, Evanston, Il,

After graduarion Watts was appointed registrar of the Career Institute
in Chicagu, and remained there until 1943 when he joined the Nielsen
Marketing Service. He was statistical research executive of the A. C.
Neilson Company at the ume of his death. He was survived by his wife
and two sons.

_

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1039

PHILIP GRANDIN WEATHERBY

  

  

wowk ADDRESS: 124 Five Mile River Rd., Darien, Conn.

orice aporess: McGraw-Hill Publishing Co., 500 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.

paupanrD at: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: s.B., 1939.

warrieo: Jean Walsh, April 20, 1946 (divorced 1959); Betty Jane Watkins, Dec.
4 1959, cHitpreEN: Michael Frederick, Jan. 30, 1950; Craig Nelson, Oct. 27,
1952; Tracy Dianne, May, 1961.

occt paTION: District manager, advertising space salesman, McGraw-Hill Publish-
ing Company.

wemper OF: U.S, Power Squadron; South Norwalk Boat Club; Mystic Historical
Association.

My career for the past twenty-five years has been with McGraw-Hill
with the usual ups and downs. I have worked in three of the company’s
offices, but for the past eleven years in the New York office. During
that time I have lived in New York City three times and twice in the
suburbs. It looks as if I’m stuck commuting for a while.

After eight years of cruising Long Island Sound, I sold my boat and
have taken up weeding. I'll own a boat again when I can have it in the
water all year. My wife and I would like to retire to one some day,
preferably in the Virgin Islands. .

* WALTER WRIGHT WEBSTER, JR.

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

1040
porn: Oct. 10, 1918, Cambridge, Mass. Parents: Walter Wright
‘Mabel Randall. Webst
Worcester, Mass.

Worcester Academy,
1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1939.

Aug. 5, 1944, in France.

PREPARED AT:
YEARS IN COLLEGE:
prep: Killed in action,
After graduation Webster joined the General Electric train}
and upon comple co

commissioned at Officers Training School. He was later prom
first lieutenant of the Infantry, transferred to England, assigned <4
both Infantry, Ninth Division and served with them througho to
invasion and Normandy campaigns. He was killed by artiller ut
leading his platoon near the town of Champ-du-Boult. He was sure:
i

by hus parents.

JOSEPH MARCUS WEIL

ROP TROT

     
    

  

A ttenay

AR tana,

DRESS: 1073 Lincoln Ave., Highland Park, Ill.
mpRESS: Mayer, Friedlich, Spiess, Tierney, Brown & Platt, 231 S. LaSalle
ahicago, Ill. 60604.
At; Francis W, Parker School, Chicago, III.
OLLECE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; LL.B., magna
rude, 1942.
rns Uhlmann, Sept. 3, 1949, cuitpREN: Frederick David, Jan. 14, 1951;
ov. 23, 1953; Susan, Feb. 21, 1957.
Attorney.
2: Member, Board of Governors and secretary, Lake Shore County
ce 1959; member, executive committee, since 1949 (chairman, on
lical Research Council, member, Board of Governors, since di
research Institute of Michael Reese Hospital; member, board mv ;
Wish Family Service and Community Centers of Chicago, since Cit
nerican, Illinois and Chicago Bar Associations; Law Club of ry
Downtown Club; Harvard Club; Arts Club; Lake Shore Coun
moor County Club,

uon I went to the L ‘ving the first two Ye ars
aw School, living t » Hastings

! Drive, Cambrid Walte

ge, and the last year at Wa '
nber of the Law Review and graduated in June, 194!
r
-Feported to the U.S, Naval Training Station at D0
d after completing training there [ was tf anst slow"
ce School ar Washington, D.C., Navy Yard. *°

er, "17

tion of the course he enlisted in the Arm ng Course
and

the

th
¥ fire While

Ved

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT O41

. schooling I was assigned to ordnanc i

ne ae the Naval Gun Factory in the Washingean end Rrocurement

was reassigned OF he er ‘Training Center at Miami, Florida, for

further training. rom " rey joined the battleship North Carolina and

spent about six month aboard that ship in Boston and New York Navy

Ye being released from active service as a lieutenant (s.g.) in 1O44,
an t

I plate (then named Mayer, Meyer, Austrian & Platt) in Chicago. 1 am

now a partner in that firm, specializing in corporate, financial and

banking Jaw. In the course of practice I have become a member of the

Illinois, F ederal Seventh Circuit and U.S. Supreme Court bars, and

of the usual bar associations.

In 1949 I married Janis Uhlmann of Highland Park, Winois, a suburb
of Chicago. After a year, living on the fringe of Rush Street night life
on the near north side of Chicago and partaking of all the cultural
advantages of @ big city, including traffic and parking problems we
moved to suburban Highland Park and I joined the commuting, P.T.A.
Cub Scout, community-affairs-conscious horde with ever greater in-
yolvement aS Our family was augmented by three children. They are

a SOD, aged thirteen, and two daughters, aged ten and seven, and out
lives substantially revolve about them.

HERBERT WEINSTEIN

 

HOME ApprEss: 17 Barton Drive, Sudbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Co., Wayland, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mase

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, pecren: a.8., 1939,

MARRIED! Miriam Bloom, Dec. 21, 1950. crate: Judah Lee, Feb A daa,

OCCUPATION: Electronica; engineering proposal spevialia,

After six years in the Navy during World War Wand ae more there.
after in a small family business came manage, WY eve tay Raye.
and I began to live. Now a lovely wife and daughter, a port beast
4 comfortable home in what TP consider a tine, Wberaly tase ytina _

i

Orward-looking community all combine to make every day wart qa,

he practice of law at Mayer, Friedlich, Spiess, Tierney, Brown ee

1042 HARVARD CLASS OF | 939

SIDNEY MOSES WEINSTEIN

    

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Dartmouth Rd., West Orange, N.J.

OFFicE appress: Tanatex Chemical Corp., Page and Schuyler Avenues, Lynd-
hurst, NJ.

PREPARED AT: Publie Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; s.m. (New York
Univ.) , 1943; pup. (ibid.), 1951.

MARRIED: Ethel Blanck, Aug. 25, 1940. CHILDREN: David Joel, Oct. 5, 1944; Daniel
George, and Michael Thomas (twins), March 1, 1949,

OCCUPATION: Vice-president and director of research, Tanatex Chemical Corpora-
tion, manufacturers of chemicals for textile industry.

OFFICES HELD: President, Essex County Chapter, 1955-57, New Jersey State Council,
1957-59, member, National Board, since 1957, ADA; treasurer, 1958-60, vice-
president, since 1960, New Jersey “Y” Camps; secretary, 1958-60, vice presi-
dent, since 1960, Jewish Vocational Service of Essex County; treasurer, since
1960, vice-president, since 1961, Jewish Council of Essex County.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Association of Textile Chem-
ists & Colorists; American Association for the Advancement of Science;
Association of Harvard Chemists; Harvard Clubs of New York and New
Jersey; American Civil Liberties Union; National Association for the Ad-
vancement of Colored People; Urban League.

PUBLICATIONS: Chemical articles and patents.

If I tried to predict in June, 1939, what would happen to me, I think
I would have been completely wrong. As a matter of fact, the fantastic
and amazing (and sometimes frightening) happenings to our planet
would have been completely unpredictable. As for me, I wouldn’t have
believed that my life could have turned out as satisfying as it has — in
business, professional, community, social, and family affairs. :

Finding a job upon graduation turned out to be quite difficult. I had
an inkling that I would encounter this problem even before graduation.
Nevertheless, after exhausting all possibilities in the Boston area, I finally
found a job in New York City. In three months I left and I accepted
a job with the Apex Chemical Company in Elizabeth, New Jersey. After
four years as a research chemist, | was made director of research. I
held this position until early 1952, At Apex I helped develop various
textile and leather finishes. My work there was considered essential, so
that I did not serve in the Armed Forces during the war.

In the fall of 1941 [ undertook graduate work at New York University
on a part-time basis. | was able to earn a Master’s degree in June, 1943,

kibaed nc isla ah lb

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1043

and finally my Ph.D. in June, 1951. Farning a graduate degree under
conditions of a growing family can be dithicule but very sanstving.
Shortly after I received my Ph.D. I helped organize the Chem-Pleu
Company, Inc., and in 1957 Chem-Plex merged with my present: em-
ployer, Tanatex Chemical Corporation. 1 am now vice-president and
director of research.

My work at Tanatex deals mostly with problems in the dveing and
finishing of the various synthetic fibers, Our company has grown and
prospered since the merger took place, and we have expanded our
operations into other countries. We have a subsidiary in Holland which
manufactures and sells to most countries in Furope. In addition, we
have agents in other areas such as the Middle F.ast, the Far bast. Aus
tralia, and Latin America. Our prospects continue to be good. Our
foreign ventures require my travcling abroad, and this phase of the
work can be very exciting. I am satisfied that we are recognized by
the textile industry, both here and abroad, as experts in dyeing, printing,
and finishing of various synthetic fibers.

My participation in community affairs had to wait until | was finished
with graduate work. I became active in Americans for Democratic
Action (ADA) in 1952, and I still enjoy parucipation in its acnvinies, |
consider myself an independent, but I have never voted for a Republi
can candidate for President. | have supported Senator Chiford Case,
a Republican, and Senator Harrison A, Williams, Jr. a Democrat.

A great deal of satisfaction in community hfe has been achieved by
participating in various social welfare programs. Over the veary PE have
been and still am a fund raiser for our United Appeals as well as for the
United Fund of the Oranges and Maplewood. In addinon, | play a
major role in our United Jewish Appeal of Fssex County. In the latter
case, | am in the fortunate position of helping to raise the funds av well
as deciding how the funds should be spent. PE have been the chaitinan
for United Jewish Appeal, not only for my West Orange community
but also for the suburban areas of Fssex County. Tam chairman for
the Budget Committee which allocates funds for our Jewsh Community
Center as well as for various Jewish education programe Such com:
munity work can be very rewarding. This ts true not only in my par-
ticipation in the affairs of the Jewish Community Council of bawce
County but also in the problems of the New Jersey “Y" camps as well
as the Jewish Vocational Service of Fuwex Count.

My community of West Orange, New Jemev. could well be eon.
sidered a typical suburban arca, We are tucarty nulew from New York
City. Therefore, we attend plavs, concerts, ballety the opera. and w har
have you. However, the prosimity to New York as inet the only reason
1 like our community. We have made many wonderful france wes
have helped to enrich our lives.

The most satisfying and most rewarding phase of iy daly fsocg on
my family. It is nice ta have a wife whe has the wane active merece en
community affairs. As a matter af fact, she hae hecee we Seupere oan
the role of the voluntcer that the Schont of Sowial Waek ot Koco es
University is undertaking to present a course on the “sedunrere in wel
fare agencies.” Mv wife and @ friend are eo eharrrien of pe Vibes
Committee for this cove). Ino adkditton, abe hae ching eorme wee

Ps

1044 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

dealing with family as well as with child care problems. With all of
her involvement, she has done a wonderful job in bringing up our
three sons. My eldest, David, is now a sophomore at the University
of Michigan. Daniel and Michael are in the ninth grade. My sons are
a real joy to me. Yes, there are problems but fortunately all of them
are minor.

No, I wouldn’t have dared to predict that my life could have turned
out as pleasant as it is. As a matter of fact, if I had to do it all over I
would be very careful not to change one step. It couldn’t possibly lead
to a better life than I now have.

GERARD WEINSTOCK

   

HOME AppRESS: 4 Livingston Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Basic Foods, Inc., 53 Bancker St., Englewood, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Erasmus Hall High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. pecREES: A.B., 1939; LL.B., 1942.

marriep: Margaret M. Epstein, Dec. 15, 1945. cHiLDREN: Douglas, April 19, 1948 ;
William, Aug. 19, 1950; Katherine, Feb. 18, 1953.

OCCUPATION: President, Basic Foods, Inc, manufacturers of specialty ingredients
and equipment for the baking industry.

OFFICES HELD: Currently, director, Merchants Bank of New York; director, Gross-
man Publishers, Inc., New York; member, National Executive Board, Ameri-
can Jewish Committee; member, Commission for Human Relations of New
Rochelle; director, Citizens for Public Education (New Rochelle), Council for
Unity of New Rochelle, Mental Hygiene Association of Westchester County;
formerly, chairman, American Field Service, New Rochelle, 1961-63; chair-
man, Westchester Division, American Jewish Committee, 1959-62; chairman,
Industrial Committee, American Red Cross, Englewood, N.J., 1961; director
and treasurer, Windward School, 1956-59; member, Citizens Study Comm.
for Revision of High School Vocational Curriculum, Board of Education,
Englewood, N.J., 1959-60.

MEMBER OF: Rotary Club, Englewood, N.J.; Harvard Club of New York.

After three years at the Law School the military occupied me until
February, 1946. Rejected earlier by the Navy (myopia), the Army took
me into the fold in July, 1942, by reducing the eyesight requirements
less than twelve hours before my physical. This worked out well as
jobs were vacated by the better-sighted. Heeding a law prof’s advice |
jumped at the chance to become a company clerk, from which assign-
ment I was able to spot the call for Security Intelligence Corpsmen.

oot

$

t
i

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1045

Back into civvies (except when availing mysclf of uniformed service-
BY . * '

men’s discounts), the balance of my Army tour involved domestic

Counter-Intelligence and Positive Intelligence.

It also gave me enough time to meet and marry Mags who was a
freshman at Radcliffe my last year at Law School. But we didn't
meet until three years later. Married life began in Brooklyn Heights,

Each time a child arrived we moved — first to Rye, and in 1951 to New
Rochelle where we still live.

Five years at the law when the chance to invest in my present
business presented itself -—and 1 don’t regret the change. It’s been
interesting and challenging — an opportunity to put into practice same
thoughts on approaching problems, handling personnel, etc.

In spare time I’ve become involved in community activities, Whether
by disposition, talent or otherwise, I've felt that many of the problems
of progress in our county (Westchester) and community (New Ro-
chelle) might be more directly attacked and solved more quickly by
“thinking small.” High level pronouncements and laws are fine, but
implementation is usually on the local level.

For three years as chairman of the Westchester Division of the
American Jewish Committee we were involved with a number of civil
rights and human relations problems, the toughest of which was the
desegregation of New Rochelle’s Lincoln School, This ultimately ar-

rived in the Federal District Court—and on up to the U.S. Supreme

Court. It was fun, by comparison, helping unofficially with the U.S.
Civil Rights Commission Report.

Also pleased to participate in four-day interreligious, interracial con-
ference in October, 1962. The success of this pioneer experiment helped
attract Foundation funds for similar type conferences in other sections
of the country.

Now serving on the first Human Relations Commission for New
Rochelle, recently appointed by the ourgeing mayor; and hoping the
new mayor will look favorably on the Commission established under
recent New York state statute. Loads of frustration in these activities
Still a scattering of results restores my optimisin of which I still have
a goodly amount — I hope in realistic quantity.

Fortunately other pleasures buoy the spirit. Manage to get in a fair
amount of tennis, winters included. Doubles only now. | like to
deceive myself into thinking that it’s because the others won't: play
singles — but I’m happy as it is.

We all enjoy traveling. Who doesn't? In tgta, as a member of
Radio Free Europe Inspection Trip to Portugal and Germany, belped
celebrate the tenth anniversary of West Berlin's Freedom Bell.

Besides Mexico and Caribbean Islands we've made it to Hrean, brane
and Italy. We're concentrators and like to spend fairly bong pero sts
in each country. Fishing villages are for me. Mavbe its a fale wre
of adventure when there are few or no Americans there, Alwr tr bite
the children from time to time — all five of us te Burope in wumiee ot
1963. Perhaps we deceive ourselves in thinking that thiv pw oo extras
agance which is really broadening for then — particulacly af you troved
second class or lower, when available.

At times I'm concerned whether our type of bite and) eerunadity

1046 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

might stifle, rather than stimulate, children’s imaginations, interests,
desires, ambitions, etc.

We also get involved in other face-to-face activities like American
Field Service. As of this writing a twelve-year-old Mexican boy is
living with us for two months on an informal exchange basis.

I wonder —is the uncertainty about many things a sign of an open
mind, or is it symptomatic of indecision? Or both?

DANIEL AARON WEISS +

    
 

ENE TERE NRE

HOME ApprEss: 1982 W. Paces Ferry Rd., N.W., Atlanta 27, Ga.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Montag, Inc., 245 N. Highland Ave., N.E., Atlanta 7, Ga. :
PREPARED AT: West Chester High School, West Chester, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: s.B., 1939; w.p.a., cum laude, 1941.
markigD: Elaine Montag, April 29, 1944 (divorced 1953); Julia Meyer, June 10,

1956. CHILDREN: Kenneth Montag, Dec. 31, 1945; Linda Ann, May 17, 1948;

Michael Epstein (stepson), Aug. 10, 1950; Andrew M., Feb. 27, 1959. é
occupation: President, Montag, Inc., manufacturers of paper school supplies end £
social stationery; vice-president, Western Tablet and Stationery Corporation, .
Dayton, Ohio (parent organization). :

oFFices HELD: Chairman, American Jewish Committee, 1956; campaign chairman,

i,

distal ates Weare

nel hi eo REO Wir aod

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1047
Atlanta Jewish Welfare Fund, 1956, American Red Cross, 1957, United
Appeal, 1961; president, Atlanta Jewish Community Council, 1958.59,
member, Board, National Conference of Christians & Jews. Atlanta Jewish
Community Center, Atlanta Jewish Welfare Fund, Atlanta Trafhe & Safety
Council; Harvard Business School Fund Council. 1960-61; treacurer and
member of board, Oglethorpe University, 1962: vice-president, Metropolitan
Atlanta Community Services, 1962; president, Paper Stationery & Tabict
Manufacturers Association, 1961-62-63: B'nai B'rith “Distinguished Setvire”

Award, 1959; advisory board, Citizens & Southern National Bank, St. Joseph's
Infirmary.

MEMBER OF: Rotary; Breakfast Club; Harvard Club of Atlanta; Harvard Business

Club of Atlanta (member of board); Standard Club (past president) > Com-
merce Club.

After graduating from the Business School in 1941 T entered the Army
in September of that year to complete my six months’ service. Based
on my several years’ experience in the Harvard band, I was inumediately
classified as a bugler and sent to Camp Wheeler, Georgia. After Othicer
Training School I was stationed at several camps around Georgia and
taught at Fort Benning for a period.

After the war I settled in Adlanta and went to work at Montag's.
Through hard work (my wife at the time being the daughter of the
owner) I was elected president in 1950. In 1960 the company was sald to
the Champion Paper and Fibre Company, and in 1962 was again sold
to Western Tablet & Stationery Corporation, Dayton, Ohio, where, as
of the time of this writing, we still belong. It has been an interesting
business experience to be involved first with a family-owned company
and then with a couple of large corporations.

I have had the opportunity to work actively in numerous civic, fre
ligious and charitable organizations around Adanta. My wife and I
enjoy traveling and get away when we have the opportunity. FE hope to
continue to do so even under the new tax laws.

I consider myself a Southerner, even though twenty vears seems to
be long enough for the North to give one up without being sufficient
time for the South to accept one. In the South Tam conudered a

Liberal, but [ am still considered a Conservative among many of my
northern friends.

GEORGF. LAVAN WEISSMAN ¢

 

LAST MAILING ADORASS: 32 Rersledale Su, Allena, Mase,

1048 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

EDWARD SOHIER WELCH, JR.

    

HOME apprEss: 795 Edmands Rd., Framingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Fenwal, Inc., Ashland, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

marnieD: Mary Corbin Eddison, Dec. 27, 1940. cHtLpreN: Edward Sohier, 3d,
April 26, 1942; William Barton, Jan. 16, 1944; Mary Corbin, April 15, 1949;
Anne Eddison, Feb. 25, 1952.

HARVARD SONS: Edward Sohier Welch, 3d, 64; William Barton Welch, °66,

occupaTION: Manufacturing; vice-president of engineering, planning, and admin-
istration of the technical activities of the company.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; Cruising
Club of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Seven U.S. patents in the fields of electronics and medical
equipment,

The question that shook me on the anonymous Reunion questionnaire
was the one that asked if what Iam doing now was what I intended to
do when I left college. I haven’t thought about this for years but my
recollection is that I had no goals of the solid, meaty kind I would hope
my children to have and that, on hearing during my senior year that
St. Mark’s needed a mathematics teacher, I reacted impulsively and
persuaded the headmaster to hire me somewhat against his better judg-
ment. My rationalization for this impulse was that it would give me
some time to formulate long range goals!

But time passed quickly even then. The first year of teaching was
unquestionably more educational for me than for my not always
patient and understanding students, The second year was my year of
greatest good fortune, and we were married two days after Christmas.
The third year mysteriously brought more good fortune. We tacked
a 3d on after his name and called him Teddy. If he wanted to be the
third generation to cope with Sohier he could decide for himself at
twenty-one! (Now, almost twenty-two and a member of the Class of
64, he is called Ted.)

A few days before leaving the classroom in 1942 to join something
called the Army Specialist Corps, I learned that OSRD’s Radio Research
Laboratory, then being put together in Cambridge, needed technical
people to work on radar countermeasures, The laboratory was located
in Harvard’s Biology Building, and I was attached for three years to

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1049

a project aimed at producing the most powerful radar jamming trans-
mitter then possible. It was, indeed, so powerful that we, its progenitors,
exposed continually to its radiative outpourings, developed serious con-
cern about its possible effects on our own progenitives. Its abilitv to
jam the German airborne radar from where we set it up on the Fast
Anglian Coast was, as we learned after the war, less impressive to the
enemy than to us.

Irradiation notwithstanding, the family circle widened (Bill is in the
Class of °66); the war ended, and the need for a peacetime vocation
brought a conflict that still endures between continuing in research and
going back to teaching. Although I have progressed in industry from
the innocence of creative research to the sophistication of technical
management, I find it more satisfying to the pocketbook than to the soul.
To me there is a purity and endurance to the products of education that
is largely missing in the products of industry judged as they are by their
monetary rather than their intellectual or spiritual value. I have found,
however, that a measure of idealism and freedom of thought can be
injected into the daily affairs of business with disarming results. It even
helps in keeping the chief engineer on speaking terms with the sales
manager.

This same freedom carried into religion makes me an extreme bberal,
nearly an agnostic; into politics, suspicious of those who have extreme
convictions; and into social matters, an iconoclast. I rarely go to church
but am glad others do, always vote but almost always split the ballot,
and enjoy individual associations from all walks of life but dislike the
cocktail syndrome of suburbia.

I don’t think I have any hobbies in the usual sense but instead enjoy
a wide variety of practical and fanciful activities mostly concerned with
family and home. Enough of this has rubbed off on my sons so that we
have surprised even ourselves with such unlikely items as a ski tow in
Framingham and home re-built rowing scull in Maine, where we have
a summer place on Pretty Marsh Harbor. Their mother’s influence has,
however, instilled a good balance of social and civic consciousness, and
they are equally at home with committees or cotter pins.

But now we have only two delightful daughters ar home — and I have
gone back to mowing my own grass, which is great for the waistline.
I still enjoy my wife’s company more than anvone clse’s (company or
wife) and find it a challenge to keep my interests outside my business
and family as broad as hers. I am looking forward to the next twenty-
five as more rewarding, less frantic, and extremely interesting, if TP can

stay open-minded enough to see them that way.



1050 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ROGER HINCKLEY WELLINGTON

FORTY |
i
<

      
    

BORN: Oct. 24, 1916, Chestnut Hill, Mass. parents: Stanwood Gray Wellington,
Alice Baker.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; M.B.A., LO4I.

piep: Feb. 22, 1942, Chestnut Hill, Mass.

Roger Hinckley Wellington was associated with the Bendix Aviation
Corporation in Bendix, New Jersey. He was survived by his mother.

ARTHUR BYRON WELLS

Ss BEA STARS RE OA RIES IS AS
q

  

HOME AppREsS: 2427 Eccleston St., Silver Spring, Md.

OFFICE appREss: Civil Aeronautics Board, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Western High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: S.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Kathryn Loveless, Sept. 28, 1946. cHILDREN: Michael, Oct. 26, 1947;
Linda, June 14, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Air transport examiner, Civil Aeronautics Board.

Following graduation I put in two years with a bank, four in the
Army, fifteen with Capital Airlines and the last three with the Board,
an interesting place to work. Have continued my education, or perhaps
re-education, with courses at night, mostly accounting and economics.

Our family enjoys music, reading, TV, occasional ball games, going
to the ocean for vacations, and is looking forward to seeing New England

1052 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

OFFICE ADDRESS: 41 Third Ave., Bayshore, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: McBurney School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. pEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; LL.B., 1942.

marRiED: Marian B. Stewart, Aug. 5, 1950. cumpren: Katherine Eliza, Oct. 21,
1953; John W., Dec, 27, 1958; Margaret B., April 13, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Attorney and secretary to Justice of Appellate Division of New York
Supreme Court.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Suffolk County Bar Association.
MEMBER OF: Bayberry Beach and Tennis Club; Southward Ho Golf Club.

After graduation from law school in 1942, I went into the Navy and
emerged in 1946 as a lieutenant. Following one year as a law clerk in
New York City, I spent three years as an attorney on the staff of a mem-
ber of the National Labor Relations Board in Washington. The Board
was full of bright young attorneys who had been disappointed in a de-
sire to work for downtown New York firms, whose briefs they were now
passing on. As the Board members these attorneys assisted were not re-
quired to be lawyers, it sometimes occurred to me that Aesop’s lion and
mouse fable was being re-enacted with modifications. In Washington ]
got to know A. Powell Davies and joined his Unitarian Church. (1 still
consider him and Alfred North Whitehead the two great men whose
orbits mine crossed.) I met my wife-to-be at this church through a girl
to whom I had been teaching tennis. The latter girl subsequently married
a tennis player — another illustration of a sort of horn book justice.

In 1951 1 moved to Suffolk, the easternmost county on Long Island,
and went into general practice. ] am now a secretary to a justice of the
Appellate Division of the New York Supreme Court but still carry on a
private practice omitting all litigation and matters which might involve a
conflict of interest. This provides a mixture of the philosophic and prac-
tical side of the law which I find very satisfying. My immediate problem
is to find time to know my still young children, aged ten, five, and two
and a half. My generalized problem is one common to our affluent
society too many of everything; possessions, community activities,

duties, diversions. Maybe the pathos of finite man with his infinite long-
ings is preferable to that of the finite man overwhelmed by a welter of
satisfactions, the moth desiring the star better off than the moth blunder-
ing through Times Square illuminated.

SIDNEY WERLIN

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1053
HOME ADDRESS: 22 Wethersfield Rd., Natick, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Friedman, Atherton, Sisson & Kozol, 30 State St., Boston, Masa,
PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; Lie, cum laude,
1942.

MARRIED: Edith Kaplan, March 30, 1947. cHILDREN: Stanley Howard, Jan. 7, 1949;
Jeffrey Paul, Dec. 3, 1951.

occuUPATION: Lawyer; partner in law firm of Friedman, Atherton, Sisson & Kozol.
OFFICES HELD: Director of several companies.

MEMBER OF: American, Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associations.

After graduation I attended Harvard Law School, receiving my LL.B.
degree in June of 1942, while in the Armed Forces, During World War
Il, after becoming one of the “ninety-day wonders,” I served as a line
officer in the Pacific Theatre, more specifically New Guinea, Mororai
Island, the Philippines and Japan. I found that this could be a hazardous
occupation, but after four years, “Separation Day” finally arnved and
1 embarked on a new occupation which I hoped would be more to my
liking.

After serving as law secretary to the late Mr. Justice Ronan of the
Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court, I engaged, with some measure
of success, in the practice of law with the old Boston law firm of
Friedman, Atherton, Sisson & Kozol. I am presently a partner in that
firm, with emphasis in the area of corporate practice.

Upon my return from the war I met and married my better half,
Edith, and in between our activities in community, social and business
affairs, we found a few moments to have, raise and enjoy our two
young sons, Stanley Howard and Jeffrey Paul. We live in a suburban
community about twenty miles west of Boston, where we have partici-
pated, and still participate, in such activities as P.T.A. Cub Scouts,
community politics (both civil and petty), religious affairs and the
other things that go with suburban living.

After twenty-five years, | look back with great fondness on my years
at The Squa-ah. While it is not necessarily true that “You can always
tell a Harvard Man,” I think it is probably true that a Harvard edu-
cation will not handicap a Harvard man. Mine has been of assistance
to me,

DAVID WESLEY

1054 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HOME ADDRESS: 301 Hillcrest Rd., York, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The York Gazette & Daily, 31 E. King St., York, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Hackley School, Tarrytown, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., cum laude, 1939.

makRIED: Marie Hansen, April 21, 1944. cuitp: Judith Ann (Jann), Feb. 1, 1950.

occupaTION: Journalist; editor of editorial page, The York Gazette & Daily; con-
tribuler, The National Guardian.

OFFICES HELD: National Council Member, Emergency Civil Liberties Committee,
New York City; member, board of directors, York Council for Community
Education, Harrisburg Civic Ballet Company; member, United Nations Cor.
respondents Association, 1950-52, National Press Club, 1946-49, Foreign Press
Club, Buenos Aires, 1949-50; member-at-large, Federation of American
Scientists.

MEMBER OF: Royal Automobile Clubs Maxinkuckee Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Hate Groups and the Un-American Activities Committee,” pamph-
let; “Kennedy: The Image-Makers,” essay in Les Temps Modernes; many
magazine and newspaper articles.

Plus ga change... pretty well sums it up. I left college (when my
name, incidentally, was David Wesley Nussbaum) as a radical and aim-
ing at journalism, and I've been a radical journalist ever since. For many
years I’ve also been an editor, but my finest hour as an editor was achieved
in the Cantabrigian days. As Pegasus of the Advocate, 1 had future play-
wright Robert Anderson, ’39, writing drama reviews, future film writer
Harry Brown, '40, on movies, future artist Alfonso Ossorio, 38, doing
art, and future tunesmith Leonard Bernstein, ’39, covering music. Even
] have to admit that that would be hard to beat, at least for mantic prow-
ess.

' If there has been anything satisfying about my Procrustean career, it
is that except for a couple of years at the outset on a notorious picture
magazine, whose name I am constrained from mentioning because it’s a
four-letter word, | have managed to function throughout in the realm of
the commercial press without finding it necessary to check or suppress my
antipathetical outlook. I have called the shots as ’'ve seen them and, as
I tend to see them, they add up to a fairly sweeping indictment of western
civilization, This jaundiced view has been, if anything, made even more
ochroid by a somewhat extensive exploration of the commanding heights
of that civilization. Over the years, in Washington, abroad and at the
U.N,., I have met and discussed the affairs of state with most of the
world’s leaders and its ranking statesmen. I married a “beauteous” Life
photographer (the adjective was Drew Pearson’s when he took note of
her having been the only member of the press to be invited into the
Little White House in Independence) and on our travels we have visited
with Picasso, Braque, Mann, Malraux, Santayana, Sartre and Camus, with
Chanel, Schiaparelli, Worth and Molyneux; with ex-King Umberto and
the Spanish Pretender. We have cruised the Mediterranean on Hitler’s
yacht (our host had bought it from the British Admiralty), lunched in
Parliament (with the probable next Prime Minister of Britain), cocktailed
at the Royal Yacht Club in Alexandria as the guest of King Farouk, dined
at the White House and attended the annual gala at the Opera with the
President of France. We have weekended at the Duc de la Rochefou-
cauld’s chateau, hunted on the private hunting preserve of an Argentine
estancia, skied at the private skiing lodge of Mme. Sursock in The
Lebanon, yachted on the River Plate (and once celebrated Christmas by |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1085

flying over Nazareth, Bethlehem and Jerusalem singing Christmas carels
—with a half- loaded pilot), We were the only western journalists to
have been granted an audience with the Grand Mufti of Jenisalem (1
have a citation from the Jewish Agency for the job I did on him later),
and Marie is the only woman, other than Queen Flizabeth, to have in-
vaded the sacred male precincts of the Paris Bourse (she also took the
first color pictures ever permitted of the French National Assembly and
the Academie Francaise in session).

There is, of course, nothing at all disagreeable about all of this, but

eventually, like Hans Castorp, we had to climb down off the heights and
renew contact with the real world. Sickening of the city, and anchored
down by an heir, we took root here, where the paper I labor for had the
somewhat rare distinction several years ago of winning simultancously
the N. W. Ayer Cup as the best-looking daily in the country and a cita-
tion from the Soviet Press Association (or whatever it is) as the best
(non-Communist ) U.S. paper in content. In addition te my regular
chores, | review music, theatre, movies, dance and books w hen a decent
occasion arises, which in patho-morphology of the American masscult is
seldom. I still make periodic pilgrimages to the U.N, and State Depart-
ment briefings, but my life is chiefly influenced by my incorrigible con-
victions that Americans’ unconditional surrender to what Hutchins calls
the Golden Dinosaur ineluctably conditions them to become dissociated
from reality (it is a superb irony to depict us as “marerialists”), thar
Americans thus live in a Cherry Orchard of illusions and false hopes,
with as little capacity to regain control of their destiny as Mime. Ranev-
sky; that for all practical purposes, consequently, the most backward na-
tion in the world is not Togo or Tobago but our own, and thar the
only thing that can possibly save us from being trampled underfoot
by the march of history (or immolated on the nuclear pyre) is te drarm
unilaterally and completely and rejoin the human race on the only level
on which it is willing to join us, the level of humanity.

As for the brat in our pelfrey, she appears to lean more to the muscle
than the mental (my greatest humiliation is that at thirteen she can whip
me instantly at Indian hand wrestling), She ts a rather fanev diver and
even fancier on skis, two on the snow, one on the water (roy greatest
satisfaction is that, apart from the war years I've mised skiing only one
winter since college). There remains only to report on the final member
of our ménage @ quatre, an elderly Irish type bearing the distinguished

name of Finnegan Swake. At the advanced age of cleven he in unlike
the other senescents in the house, full of ginger,

1056 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

ROBERT WESSELHO

as

EFT, JR.

   

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1407 Wild Cat Hollow, Austin, Texas. 78746.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: $.B., 1939,

MARRIED: Nancy D. Stevens (divorced 1946); Gretchen Knuebel Whitehurst,
March 7, 1947, CHILDREN: Marjorie, Sept. 28, 1940; Robert, 3d, April 10,
1944; John Collin Whitehurst, Oct. 28, 1940 (stepson).

occupaTion: Consulting geologist.

MEMBER OF: A.A.P.G.

Invererate “brown-bagger.” With the amount of work ceaselessly im-
pending I found the noon hour one of the few periods I could have to
myself, so have continued to take my “cookies and milk” to work under
all circumstances.

Returned to school a couple of years back to work toward doctorate
at University of Texas, Excellent place for the graduate student but ap-
palling for the undergraduate.

After the usual stint for “Uncle” I returned to work in Texas for the
small oil company I had previously drawn my check from in California.
When they were absorbed I went “independent,” while associated with a
small producer. When he sold out I took a long look — and returned to
college. Marjorie, my daughter, has been working in Boston and Hyannis
since finishing junior college. Robert, 3d, is a sophomore at Brown.
John is studying accounting, to my great joy, as it is one of my most
needed shortcomings. Social, political and religious conviction I will
shun, But this good country is not our forefathers’ son.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1057

CHARLES FREDERICK WEST

    

HOME ADDRESS: 25 Wallace Rd., Quincy, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: South Junior High School, Braintree, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School. Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936, 1945-1947. pecrees: a.B., 1939147); tp. (Boston
Univ.) , 1951.

marrieD: Norma Virginia LaHive, Jan. 15, 1946. cHutrores: Ronald, Nov. 12,
1948; Carlton, June 19, 1951; Ruth, Nov. 15, 1955; Pamela, Sept. 17, 1958

occuPATION: Education; assistant principal in junior high school.

OFFICES HELD: Member and Sunday School teacher, Park Street Congregational
Church, Boston.

MEMBER OF: Park Street Church Men’s Club; Braintree Teachers Association:
Massachusetts Teachers Association; National Educational Associatwa;
Quincy YMCA; Recreation Association,

Left Harvard in 1936, apparently never to see its doors again’! Worked
and had some schooling in the evening. Transitional period of instability
and home circumstances. Sergeant in U.S. Army Signal Corps, March,
1942, to November, 1946. Served in Southwest Pacific. New Guinea,
Oro Bay, Philippines and Okinawa. Returned to Harvard under G-l
Bill and graduated out of class, January, 1947. Missed athictics which |
most surely had inclination to recapture, had my return been earher and
with less responsibility to home and desirability to finish studics.

Social and cultural activities minimized, but with strong convictions
spiritually, mentally and morally, reinforced through war pened and
subsequent postwar years. Marriage and family, a great source of
stability and inspiration. Church, home and famuly, all the mghe in-
gredients,

Entered teaching in 1948, beginning at Rockport, Massachusertsy, and
for last fourteen years at Braintree. Have been in the adiminrerative
phase of education since 1935. Have attained much of the hfe 1 orgs
nally sought back in 1936. ‘Teaching, active in coaching athletics sceving
in community activities such as YMCA and recreanon, and enor ing
tich, happy family relationship, solidified in knowing Jesus Cherise as my
personal Saviour.

Lsincerely believe that happiness and blessings have been in proportion
to my spiritual growth over the years, U am grateful for my bliry and
training, my American heritage, but above all, thankful fur my Chess
experience which I covet for all my classmatca Tey wo goend te lek

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

d see life in focus. I wish all my clasg
survey their twenty-five years.

1058
back and forward an
thrill at this time as they

DAMON EUGENE WETTERAUER

   

OME ADDRESS: 268 Tucker Drive, Worthington, Ohio.

Fick appREsS: 345 E. State St., Columbus 15, Ohio; 7100 N. High St., Worthing.
ton, Ohio; 1625 Perry St., Columbus, Ohio.

>anED AT: Harding High School, Marion, Ohio.

S$ IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; M.p. (Ohio State Univ.), 1943,

zED: Jean Williams, June 19, 1940, cHmoreEN: Damon Eugene, Jr. (Chip),

farch 22, 1944; Gregory Lee (Tuck), Sept. 30, 1945; Lynn Elyse, Aug. 9,

147; Drucie Sue, Jan. 29, 1952.

.TI0N: Physician — internal medicine, chest and allergy.

> HELD: Official board member, Worthington Methodist Church; chairman,

dical Advisory Committee, Franklin County Tuberculosis Society; member
taff, Grant, Riverside and University Hospitals.

or: Franklin County Academy of Medicine; Ohio State Medical Associa-
American Medical Association; American College of Chest Physicians;

a Kappa Kappa Fraternity.

Democratic (Methodist) by birthright, I have gradually swung
vative Republican (Methodist) as I found myself working
1 harder for less and less,

ong dream of a profession and marriage were realized within
my Harvard graduation, attesting to the excellency of my
re. Now with one son at Oberlin and one at Muskingum,
9 is a junior at Worthington High School and another 10
de, parental obligations vie with medical, social, political
commitments,

f our May, 1963, social calendar was a visit to Washington,
ir eleven-year-old daughter, Drucie, received an AA

for bravery, which was presented by the late president,
l

re golfing, photography and inactive participation, but
football and basketball. These have been forced into
‘ue to the pressures of the medica] practice, but I woul

enjoy them to the utmost and tour the U.S.A. in 2”

Mates tha t

 

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1959

ROBERT EDWARD WHALLON

     

. RR. 2, Averill Park, N.Y.
HOME Sones! Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, Troy, N.Y.
oFFICE AD Morton High School, Richmond, Ind.

rr n RLECE: 1935-1937. DEGREES: A.B. (Miami Univ.), 1939; pu. (Harvard
YEA

Univ.) ; 1945. . : 4
p: Dorothy Curme, June 9, 1939. CHILDREN: Robert Edward, Jr. April 23,
MAE 40 (m. Nadia deGunzberg deVries, Jan. 1, 1962); Marjorie KK. Aug. 8,
1943.
garvardD SON: Robert Edward Whallon, Jr., "61.
occUPATION: Professor of philosophy and chairman of the Department, Rensselact

Polytechnic Institute. . . |
orFicks HELD: President, New York Philosophical Association, 1961-62; director,

South Mountain Association, Friends of Chamber Music, Inc.
wempeR OF: American Philosophical Association, Metaphysical Society of
America; Association for Symbolic Logic; National Skeet Shooting Associa:

tion; Phi Beta Kappa.

Harvard College did little for me, nor L for her. 1 was intellectually
prepared but not emotionally ready for college in 1935, and my two years
at Harvard were wasted. 1 graduated from another college, and came
back to Harvard for my doctorate, My thanks go to Harvard's great
faculty of that time for a fine professional training. Vai now a reasonably
successful member of a learned profession, lt seems LT could have done
much better, but then, I started out to do much worse. Scholarship and
teaching are both important to me, and Tenjoy them, My ovo children
have achieved some measure of happiness, and some intellectual distine-
ton; this makes me happy. (Son Robert, Je, graduated sunrma cum Lead
from Harvard.) My wife and [share common interests in the hfe of an
educator, ina lovely home, and in the Sport af shooting, Vhug we are
‘PPy and content, 1 would not live it overt so again, but L would net
“Tange it now, .

1060 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

PARKER WHEAT

ee a cen een

7a

   

   

HOME apprEss: 66 Carpenter St., Manchester, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 814 Elm St., Manchester, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Manchester Central High School, Manchester, N.H.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N.H

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DecREES: A.B., 1939; m.p. (Tufts Coll.), 1943.

marriED: Margaret C. Hawley, July 22, 1945. cumprEN: Parker, Jr., Nov. 16, 1946;
Frances Irene, March 20, 1949; Barbara Elizabeth, April 27, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MEMBER OF: Manchester Medical Society; Hillsborough County Medical Society;
New Hampshire Medical Society; American Medical Association.

Following graduation: Tufts Medical School, graduating in 1943;
nine months’ internship in Lowell, Massachusetts, then U.S. Army for
the other three months and further service in Alabama, the ETO and
Virginia. Met my wife in the first, married her in the second (Kassel,
Germany ) — with a honeymoon in Paris. (She was a hospital dietician,
also in the service), Out of service in 1946. One-year brush-up in my
home town, then private practice till 1950. Back into service then for
eighteen months, mostly on Cape Cod, but with two months in New
York City. (As far as 1 know, they never did fill the slot I held down,
afterward.) Since then, private practice, except for a few months out in
1958 for a coronary.

Three children, a boy in senior year high (college jitters approaching),
a girl in freshman year high and another in the seventh grade. (Another
two years and I can settle down to one P.T.A.) My: wife grows nicer
every year—and can she cook! Travels? Frankly, Pm-a rootbound
New Hampshireite — not even quite sure Massachusetts is really a New
England state. Hobbies— science fiction since 1930, etymology and
taxonomy (if I may link them), maps, plant identification — oh yes, and
people. The longer I live, the more interesting I find them, Conserva-
tive in politics, liberal in religion (don’t tell me what to believe and I'll
do the same by you). Social? Yes.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 106t

RICHARD GEORGE WHEELER

 

BORN: Jan. 11, 1917, New York, N.Y. parents: Arthur Solomon Wheeler, D4 Rose
Kurzman.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935--1939. percREE: S.B., 1939.
pep: Nov. 2, 1939, Southboro, Mass.

After graduation from college Wheeler entered the Graduate School
of Arts and Sciences with the intention of training for the Diplomane
Service of the U.S. Government. He was killed in an accident while

riding a bicycle near Worcester, Massachusetts. He was survived by
his mother.

FRANK CAWTHORNE WHEEFLOCK, JR.

4

   

Home aporess: 103 Prince St.. Weet Newton, Maca.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 11BO Beacon St. Brookline, Mase

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Springheld, Mae.

YEARS IN COLLEGK: 1935-1939. ODKRonKas: ae. cam lemde, N19, wa. com fade,
1943,

MARRIED: Nancy Marvin. Feh. 28, 1983, comoeass Debewab, Now. ba, Poki, Pree,
May 4, 1948; Elizabeth, Pets, 21, 1964),

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

OFFICES thS.0: Ansociale eutaeoa, Maeearhusctie (eneral Hoepital: esrgrem, New
England Deaconess Hospital; metructor im surgery, bhareard Metical So houd,

1064 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Admiralty Islands, and to the assignment were shortly added the duties
of assistant air radar officer. I was at this time a first lieutenant, soon be-
coming captain, while at Morotai in the Dutch East Indies. At Morotai
I had some more real action, under intensive bombing raids (one nearly
got me) and under occasional strafing attacks. (We were under 93
bombing attacks in 30 days, if memory serves.) After some months on
Leyte in the Philippines V-J Day came along; all us “old timers” (I had
g8 points toward going home) were flown to Manila and put on ships
for the good old USA. Curiously, I boarded my ship on October 26,
1945, two years to the day after boarding the ship in San Francisco.

We arrived in Portland, Oregon, the day before Thanksgiving and were
reassigned to mustering-out areas all over the country; 1 was processed
through Fort Devens, Massachusetts, with 98 days of terminal leave
coming, which gave me my discharge in March, 1946. During the first
portion of the terminal leave, I sought work in electronics to no avail,
and decided to go back to school for a Master’s in Engineering. (My
Bachelor’s in Musie was not worth much to electronics firms!!) Through
the very kind actions of Professor Ronold King, I was admitted on a pro-
visional basis at Cruft Lab at Harvard in February, 1946; with an A, two
B’s and a C I was fully admitted at the end of that term, finishing the
S.M. degree requirement at the end of the year. However, to get the
most out of my big chance to learn electronics, and at Professor King’s
suggestion, | deferred applying for the degree, taking one more term
and getting the degree in June, 1947. This was a very wise move, and I
shall never forget Professor King’s kindness and tremendous help in my
career.

I accepted a position as a junior engineer at the Raytheon Manufac-
turing Company in Waltham, Massachusetts, in June, 1947. My work
was largely in video pulse handling networks and in high-frequency an-
tenna design. In 1950 or so I took over the high-frequency propagation
section, which was involved in classified ionospheric propagation con-

tracts, traveled to England and Scotland. In about 1956 I transferred to :
systems work in high power radars, becoming involved in advanced de- i
velopment work in about 1960. :

In January, 1961, I left Raytheon to accept a position at the MITRE
Corporation in Bedford, Massachusetts, where today I am a sub-depart- :
ment head in the Radar Systems and Techniques Department, enjoying i
it immensely, and enjoying a salary which is just five times what I made :
at the start of my electronic career sixteen years ago. It is fun to specu-

Jate as to where I'd be today if I'd accepted the chance I had to join the
Woody Herman Herd when it was first forming in New York! I’m sure
I took the right turn that time!

At this point I’m in some sort of transitional phase, “unjoining” all my
organizations, letting magazine subscriptions lapse in favor of new ones,
and generally re-orienting my life. ve taken up music actively again,
and mean to get back to photography soon. I’m looking forward to our
Twenty-fifth, see you there!

eT

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1065

FRANK FRETTER WHITE

       

RNY Han,

 ¥

HOME ADpDRESS: 31700 Fairmount Blvd., Cleveland 24, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 6878 Reynolds Rd., Mentor, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: University School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1940. pEcREE: s.B., 1939(40).

MARRIED: Benita Barnes, Oct. 6, 1951 (died April 6, 1962); Eleanor Potts Bear-
den, 1963. CHILDREN: Frank Fretter, Jr., Oct. 28. 1952 (died April 6. 1962):
Pamela, Aug. 10, 1954; Peter, Feb. 28, 1956 (died April 6, 1962); Margaret,
May 10, 1958 (died April 6, 1962) ; Benita, May 21, 1959.

occuPpaTION: President, Automation Development Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Union Club of Cleveland; Kirtland Country Club.

PuBLIcATIONS: Technical articles — lectures.

Spent the first twelve years after graduation with the S.K. Wellman
Company, now a division of American Brake Shoe. Started as a billing
clerk (54th employee) and ended twelve years later as vice-president,
manufacturing-engineering and research in charge of 1800 emplovces.
The company’s role during World War II and Korea was vital — de-
veloping unique clutch and brake linings for tanks and planes. As third
largest stockholder in the company, sold stock to start Automation
Development Corporation, a corporation specializing in development of
automation systems, process lines and special machines for all tvpes of
businesses. We find most manufacturing plants either very poorly
equipped or using obsolete manufacturing techniques, so that there is a
great need for services such as our own.

My wife, Benita, and three of our five children were killed in an auto-
mobile accident returning from Florida in April, 1962. In June,
1963, Eleanor Potts Bearden and I were marricd. She has two adopted
children — Lynn six and James nine — so there are now four children in
our family.

I am an enthusiastic sailor having raced my forty-five-foor ocean
racing sloop Tigress in two Bermuda races (second and third in our
class) and about twelve Port Huron and Chicago Mackinac races. Find
myself flying a private plane more and more — mostly on short business
trips, Play considerable tennis in the summer and ski in the winter.
Usually charter a sailboat in Florida or the Bahamas for winter vacations,

1066 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

FRANK SYLVERIA WHITE, JR.
“ a me

 

HOME appress: 115 New London Rd., Mystic, Conn.

orrice apprress: U.S. Navy Underwater Sound Laboratory, New London, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Fairhaven High School, Fairhaven, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; s.m., 1940,

MARRIED: Mary Diniz, Sept. 10, 1955. cHitp: Frank Sylveria, 3d, Feb. 21, 1958.

OccUPATION: Electronic engineer, research and development, branch head, ASW
Division.

After graduation in 1939, I went to graduate school mostly because
I couldn’t get a job on the outside. I got an S.M. in 1940 and was a
teaching fellow in the Graduate School of Engineering during the

1940-41 school year.

In September, 1941, I was put on active duty in the Army. My
technical education got me into the Signal Corps and I wound up as
commanding officer of the 882d Signal Corps Depot, a service unit per-
forming administrative operation, maintenance and supply functions.
Got to see the United Kingdom, Australia and the Philippines.

In 1946 I went to work with the Navy Underwater Sound Laboratory,
a government R & D activity, I have been since, continuously involved
with the development and evaluation of surface ship sonars. The work
has been frustrating since progress has been slow in developing anti-
submarine systems with reliable detection capabilities,

At one time I was a great booster of government labs since | felt they
performed a useful function in keeping defense contractors honest.
Lately I have been having doubts because the evaluation work has not
involved enough personal original development work to allow me to
keep contact with new technical developments, As a result ] and many
of my colleagues have become paper shufflers and field testers.

My current delight is my family. However, my job involves so much
traveling that I am away from home all too often. Right now I am

debating a change of jobs.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY ROSS WHITE

  
 
 

———T KNOWN appress: 190 Babcock St., Brookline, Mass.

KENNETH WHITE t

——————-Né appress; 1352 Park Ave., Plainfield, NJ.

   

WILLARD MALLALIEU WHITMAN, JR.

|

1068 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HOME apprEss: Verbank Village Road, Verbank, N.Y.

oFFice appress: Bennett College, Millbrook, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Graveraet High School, Marquette, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. prcREEs: a.B., 1939; a.m. (Univ. of Colorado), 1948,

marrieD: Doris Isobel Clark, June 16, 1945. cuttpren: Doreen Evelyn, Aug, 29,
1951; Jean Bowman, June 3, 1953.

occupation: Teaching; chairman, Overseas Service Program, Bennett College.

After graduation I went out to Turkey as an instructor in English
at Robert College — the oldest American institution of higher learning
abroad, then in its seventy-sixth year —sailing the day war in Europe
was declared. After Pearl Harbor, finding all transportation to the
States pre-empted for strategic uses, ] went to Cairo, joined the R.A.F.,
was sent to Southern Africa for training, and was subsequently com-
missioned and made a flying instructor, based near Bulawayo, Southern
Rhodesia. There I stayed for almost three years, distinguishing myself
as “Yank” on the championship Matabele and Mashonaland baseball
team, and finding myself a wife, born in Johannesburg of Scotch and
Australian parentage and subsequently come up to the Rhodesias.

After demobilization, I taught English a year at Michigan Tech;
thence to the University of Colorado on a teaching fellowship while
completing my Master’s. I was all ready to start doctoral work in
Shakespeare on a fellowship when a kind of urgent call came from
Robert College in Turkey. Since Doris had never been there, we decided
to go in 1948. Became principal of the Academy in 1950, American
vice-president in 1956, and was beginning to think of myself as a fixture
along the Bosphorus when in 1960, among other reasons, we had cause
to read aloud those words in Hawthorne’s Marble Faun: “The years
... have a kind of emptiness when we spend too many of them on a
foreign shore . . . It is wise, therefore, to come back betimes, or never.”

Thus betimes — twenty-one years out of Harvard, nineteen of them
abroad; wife born in Johannesburg, married in Rhodesia, living in Tur-
key; two daughters born in Istanbul, one of them in a Turkish school —
we decided to come home and be Americans for a time, and in 1960
arrived at Bennett College, which had started an Overseas Service Pro-
gram, training American girls for work abroad. In 1961 I became chair-
man of that program, in which capacity I have since gone back to
Europe once and around the world once (we have a Japanese language
division). .

The return has been interesting, neither wholly bitter nor sweet. It
has been something like being born again to read the New York Times
on the day of printing, or see “Antigone” on TV; and Doris’ first
children’s book to be accepted is at the printer’s at the moment. On the
other hand, child of a sort of the depression, and product of a leanly
paid R.A.F, and of sixteen years in a Developing Country, I am some-
what uneasy about what seem to me the number of false gods in our
hearths and our determination to keep them there in spite of “creeping
socialism” and such jargon.

One of the drawbacks of living overseas is that one must stand on the
sidelines, not criticize too openly or take part in the politics of the host
country. Hence, one of my greatest satisfactions in being back has
been along these lines —I took part in the March on Washington, have

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1069

joined the NAACP and the Democratic Party, and have enjoyed, as one

who has been long without them, these opportunities to exercise my
privileges as a citizen,

ROBERT BACON WHITNEY

 

BORN: Dec. 16, 1916, New York, N.Y. parents: George Whitney, ‘07, Martha

Bacon.
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Adelaide Weld. cuitpren: Hope; Robert Bacon, Jr.; Stephen Weld;
Michael Whitney.

DIED: Dec. 24, 1952, Old Westbury, Long Island, N.Y.

After college Whitney worked for J. P. Morgan & Company until
called to active duty in the Navy. He served as executive officer of
several ships and participated in the Leyte, Lingayen, Iwo Jima and
Okinawa campaigns and the Armistice ceremony in Japan. He was
released to inactive duty as a licurenant commander in February, 1046.
Since then he had been associated with J. P. Morgan & Company, where
he was an assistant vice-president at the time of his death. Fle was
accidentally killed by a car and was survived by his wife and children.

JOHN RENSSELAER WHITTIER

1070 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HOME AbpRESS: Cottage 2, Creedmoor Hospital, Queens Village 27, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Creedmor Institute, Queens Village 27, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Alamo Heights High School, San Antonio, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. pecREES: a.B., 1939; m.p. (Columbia Univ.), 1943.

MARRIED: Margaret E. DeBraal, 1950. cHipren: Cory Clements, 1951; Brian Jay,
1958.

occuPATION: Physician; neurological and psychiatric research.

I have continued as a director of psychiatric research, responsible for
a group of investigators working on the grounds of a state hospital, con-
ducting a variety of studies, Other activities include a small private
practice and consulting work for a school district and a cerebral palsy
center.

DAVID CHURCHILL WILDER

     

q “

4 ae:

* 4
k a

HOME appress: 599 Charles River St., Needham 92, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Tucker, Anthony & R. L. Day, 74 State St., Boston 7, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREES: AB. 1939; LLB., cum laude (Boston
Univ.) , 1943.

MARRIED: Katherine Metcalf, June 27, 1939 (divorced 1946) ; Nancy Nye Coleman,
May 7, 1948. cHILDREN: Katherine Herrick, July 29, 1940; Pauline, March
4, 1942 (m. Peter Barnes, August, 1959); David F., Nov. 29, 1943; Sarah F.,
Oct. 20, 1949; William Caldwell Coleman, 3d, Sept. 9, 1943 (stepson).
GRANDCHILD: Tracy Barnes, Nov. 30, 1960.

HARVARD son: William Caldwell Coleman, 3d, 65 (stepson).

OCCUPATION: Financial analysts — petroleum specialist, Tucker, Anthony & R. L.

ay.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.; Agawam Club, Providence, R.L;
Massachusetts and Federal bars; Massachusetts Bar Association; Boston
Security Analysts Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Various financial writings.

After a brief and unhappy experience at Harvard Law, I transferred
to Boston University Law where I became editor-in-chief of the Law
Review. Worked for a month after passing the bar in 1942 and thence
into Uncle Sam’s arms via the Navy. Involved in radar and fighter
director work on a command ship in the South Pacific through the
various island hoppings. After almost five years, I returned to the law
in a large and very proper Bostonian law firm. I stayed in the Active
Reserves and, unfortunately, along came Korea and Uncle beckoned

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1O71

again, This time I was Air Intelligence officer abuard a carrier in the
Mediterranean wath my squadron. Two years of this and with the
permanent rank of lieutenant commander, | returned briefly two the law,
but found that things were not only exccedingly dull but also that I
was too far behind in that profession ever to catch up. Thus, I jumped
at an opportunity to go with a large brokerage house to train as a
security analyst or financial spy as such were then regarded. I never
regretted this somewhat traitorous switch, because this is a fascinating
business involving much traveling and meeting with industry leaders
as well as a considerable amount of writing, specch making, and lectur-
ing. After some three years there I changed to my current atfiliauon.

As can be seen, Nanny and I have a “mixed bag” of kids, his, hers,
and ours, and I have one granddaughter born the same day as JFK's son,
making a nice political balance, one Republican for one Democrat.
Daughter Katherine is attending Graduate School at Radcliffe, son
David is at Boston University and son-in-law Peter Barnes is Harvard
Law School, Class of 64. My hobbies are expensive — salmon fishing,
and trying to make money in the stock market and the oi] business.
My politics are fairly obvious, IT think. All in all, 1 find this space age

of ours very exciting but one capable of producing a fine crop of ulcers,
at least in my occupation,

BURWELL BAYLOR WILKES, IV

    

HOME Appress: 205 Crittenden St.. Greensville, Miss,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bogen, Wilkes & MeGough, Weinberg dg. Greenville, Mises.
PREPARED AT: Hume-Fogg High School, Nashville, Tenn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, pxeanes: a8. 1989; cee, let dy),

MARRIED: Mary Margaret England, April 12. 190. coup: Mary Margaret Middle
ton, Oct. 20, 1943 tatepdaughters,

OCCUPATION: Attorney engaged in general practice; proenwuling sttorery since
1951; city attorney since 1960,

OFFICES MELD: Member, board of ditector, Hewie J. Tavlos Hone fue Aged, eave
1960: member, hoard of tructers, Flbe Lenlge No. DA ance [OTL preston,

Washington County Rar Aseectatwa, 19:9; member, beard of deecnms, biret
Presbyterian Church, eince 1a.

Memaen oF: Lions Club; Elke Club; Greenville Coaatry Club,

After graduating from Harvard College PE entered Harvard Law
School but, after complening two year, was called inte miliary wrvee

1072 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

in 1941. Following my discharge in 1945, I returned to Harvard Law
School and graduated in 1947. As for my military service, most of it
was with the Fourth Armored Division, a part of the Third Army,
operating in the European Theatre,

Since 1947 I have practised law in Greenville, a thriving little city in
the Mississippi Delta, practising alone until four years ago, when I be-
came a partner in the firm of Bogen, Wilkes & McGough. In addition
to my general law practice, I have been city prosecuting attorney since
1951 and city attorney since 1960.

In 1950 I married the former Margaret England and have one step-
daughter, Mary Margaret Middleton, now a junior at Southwestern in
Memphis. My wife, an avid gardener, is presently president of the
Garden Clubs of the State of Mississippi.

Politically, I have always considered myself 2 Democrat but voted
Republican in the last presidential election and frankly find it difficult
to differentiate between the two parties. Perhaps I should best be classi-
fied as a Conservative. The alarming rate at which the federal govern-
ment spends or gives away our money, its complacency and lack of
understanding in foreign affairs and its continued usurpation of powers
and rights guaranteed to the states by the Constitution deeply trouble
me and lead me to wonder what the condition of our country will be
twenty-five years from now.

Although I must report that no outstanding awards or honors have
come my way, all in all, the years have been interesting, satisfying and
happy — accompanied, I must admit, by the usual receding hairline and
expanding girth, I have a wonderful wife and daughter, a beautiful
home and an interesting profession. Life has been good to me and my
only complaint is that the years pass too quickly.

RALPH HOWARD WILLARD, JR.

 

HOME AppRESS: 136 Fletcher Rd., Belmont, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Post Office Sq., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; LL.B., 1942.

MARRIED: Mary Faxon, June 28, 1941. cHILpREN: Deborah . : Ralph
Howard, 3d, Nov. 16, 1946; Jane, Nov. 22, 1950; Huntington, June 18, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Attorney; partner, Goodspeed & Willard,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1073

OFFICES HELD: Ofhcer and director, various businese corporations; officer, beard
member and incorporator, various charitable, school, banking and hospital
organizations; member of council, Middlesex County Bar Association, 195
63; chairman of and other offices, Belmont Community Fund, 1918-56; vestry.
man and clerk, Parish of All Saints Church, 1958-63; chairman,
Committee, 1956-63, Town Counsel, 1963, Town of Belmont;
manent Class Committee, 1949-63.

MEMBER OF: American, Massachusetts, Middlesex County and Boston Bar Asso-
ciations,

w arrant
me mber, Per.

Having picked law as my chosen field early in college, 1 spent the
summer following graduation waiting for Harvard Law School to pick
me. When it came to my attention in the spring of 1942 that the school
would grant a degree if I should be inclined to enter the service, |
departed hastily full realizing that I had better of the bargain. [| had
accumulated in the meantime what have proved to be my two most
valuable possessions, a wife and a legal education. 1 could not live
successfully without either.

After a short period at $21.00 a month, it became apparent that Marv,
who was then working at Widener Library, was the real winner for the
family and I had no choice but to memorize the Army's eve charts and
apply for OCS. As this proved somewhat easier than the prior two
schools I had attended, I was commissioned in the fall of 194: and we
set up housekeeping in turn in Texas, Alabama and Georgia.

Unfortunately, more active hostilities were elsewhere. Marv returned
to Cambridge and I embarked for North Africa to witness the dying
gasps of Rommel’s Afrika Korps. Thereafter, I enjoved various assign-
ments within the same unit, a 40 mm anti-aircraft battalion which had
the mixed honor of maintaining low fiving defense for General Fisen-
hower’s headquarters in Algiers while positioning guns within the
fabulous Casbah. Thereafter we followed the route to Germany via
Italy, Southern France, Alsace and Bavaria, all somewhat complicated
by the fact that the Army, for reasons best known within the Pentagon,
changed the unit to a mortar battalion bv the simple device of shipping
in numerous heavy mortars and removing the anti-aircraft guns.

After hostilities ceased in Europe, it was discovered in some remote
corner of a machine records unit that I had atrended law school, While
my unit joyfully sailed for New York, TP made mv wav to Normandy
as a member of a War Crimes Team. When it appeare d that mv next
stop would be Nuremburg and two vears of prosecutions the Army and
I agreed that I had had enough and ‘TL headed for Boston. Arrival home
recalled that I had failed to take the bar examinations before mv de-
parture. After a quick greeting to Mary and our number one chil I
returned to the study of law and with bricf intermisions have been at
it ever since.

I joined my father's firm in 1996, Although the same general organ-
ization remains, the natural attrinen of auc, deathy moves and suceced:
ing partnerships brings us to the present. Our practice is general, al-
though the needs of my chents scem to have kept me in the trial courts
more than a characteristic practice. It has been interesting and reward:
ing; the subject matter covers a great range amd there ws always seine:
thing new. Perhaps the variety and the ancle pendence make ise arta:
tive. However, someone once sand that the aw os a borrouiess por,

Sill eae ttentaameenateaceameameememadensiiaieaemematenaieineaimamenanmen iia Ta

174 HAKVAKD CE ASS OF 1939

thay the tral pre leno how bong one should keep do: Peg and
much tong abeukd be devoted to ether en: ovable matters
When net concersed with the botturites pt, the balance of my
has been pene ait the fare Avand the commoimity, Mary and Thave
Mewed woh fae grisly wonderfal chiadten, buc as they will p
ably tend thi ww beet thar Pome the details everett uy that
moat Connerticut Calege, Pete w Rash: ng at Re frreone Fill . jane
Basting’an in Cambridge, while Elune ‘attends the Jocal hook
that We ate very poad of then.

Nv Mary and Phave arried anv the commaney in which we grew
weenoy the aeecunen of bte tine foendy and awocutions, Weh
bar hnger is many pies and, bac other have run the gamut of
temty aAtiites Phere ws always eeething ta be dene and somes
te ak you to det Atree forty years or win the sane area, MM:

woll gt dice alk te the fails, choreh ant the VMoaor Aube

Pergne 1am dexperarels tying ft bra my efforts to my practe

the tan and che chink

Wath the bre tiie bette for “Rotbies” we have based ourels
with home and yorker. Dam atrand we tall ante the category of the “d
Wevsmnell clan amd atone tine ae other have tackled about eves
eh which has persented eclf. Que mont recent interest wa camp 3
Maine whieh provides a vamimer hong cithering point tor a growing far
hy which aight atherwne bead in tour oppenite directions,
Aw you canowe. PE Rave avented rhe hind Invitation to express m
“weal pobowal an relgious comienons” Frankly, bam: still learning

and Nave mt teached an end result, Perhaps P shall have progresses
enmiyh te he phikeophical by the guch

ARNOLD HUNSEWWEELL WILLIAMS

 

Wows apne: Pound Road. Welleclew, Mase: 6000 Pershing Ave. St Louis, Mo.

eeie® apowsse A) Washington lw) Cambrnige. Wa

peeve At Relea: Hill S bool, Beinwat. Wass

DRUMS TN cunanee. EX 1959, peeraes. 90, 199, se (Western Reserve Univ.}.
wR,

waameuo: Margaret Ao Retth. Jone. 1900 tdivereed 1937). cHruores: Caroline
Vlarand Our UL Pkt. Ammeld Hoanewell Jr Oct. 27, ING; Christepher
Peele, April 21. 1880.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1075

vcct paTION: Independently conducted research in social psychiatry and its applica-
tions at all levels in educational institutions, since 1953.

yretces WELD: Intern, Cleveland City Hospital, 1944; research fellow in pediatrics
and physivlogy, Child Research Council, University of Colorado Medical
school, 1944-46; research assistant, Dept. of Physiology, Harvard Medical
School, 1946-47; research assistant, Hypertension Division, Dept. of Internal
Medicine, 1947-49, instructor in physiology in medicine, 1949-51, Washington
Lniversity School of Medicine; captain, M.C., A.U.S., Dept. of Surgical
Physiology, Walter Reed Army Medical Service Graduate School, 1951-53.

wiwseR OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; American
bederation for Clinical Research; New York Academy of Science; American
Heart Association; Boston Medical Library; Society for General Systems
Theory; Society for the Scientific Study of Relation; Colorado Mountain
Club; Arts Club of Washington.

maicaTioNs: Publications in cardio-vascular and renal pathophysiology: articles
in American Journal of Physiology, Circulation; abstracts in American
Journal of Physiology, Federation Proceedings, Journal of Clinical Investiga-
non, Surgical Forum, The Physiologist.

Newly married and fulfilling a life-long ambition to enter medicine, I,
a dved-in-the-wool Easterner, moved “West” in the fall of 1940. Four
vears of darned hard work in Western Reserve Medical School and an
internship did nothing toward changing my moorings. As fate would
have it however, my wife, newly-born daughter and I moved west to
Colorado.

Eighteen months later an opportunity to enter cardio-vascular research
opened up in Boston and I gladly took the job. In those months marital
discord, covert and long in the making, became open, terminating in
divorce.

July, 1947, the hottest July on record in Missouri, found me in St.
Louis. The next four years introduced me to the rigors of basic research
on long-term problems and gradually I evolved into an investigator.
With help I grew new roots and came to enjoy the “West” thoroughly.

A long-deferred invitation into the Service ended further hopes for
clinical training, and in July, 1951, I started two very productive research
years in Washington. Ironically the Service, for me, meant doing just
what I had done beforehand.

“Economizing,” the Army would not shoulder a long-term research
project in shock I instituted, so in 1953, jobless, I took the opportunity
to look into the field of social psychiatry and its applications at all levels
in educational institutions. It is remarkable that in our society so many
vears are put into education and that so few or none of these are put
into learning how to live with oneself and one’s fellow man. I had
wanted to look into educational aspects of social psychiatry for several
years to see if the ideas developed in St. Louis and later were practicable.
Happily it proved so, and increasingly I have devoted all my efforts
and resources to this end. It’s been a solitary, difficult grind, but
thoroughly absorbing. For three years illness has plagued me, but as
things stand I hope to work up some of my earlier research and stav
with social psychiatry in some capacity or other, publishing results
which will make the years of labor worth while.

1076 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

DANIEL ATHERTON WILLIAMS

     

   

HOME ADDRESS: 783 Knollwood Terr., Westfield, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: International Business Machines Corp., 545 Madison Ave., New
York, N.Y. ;

PREPARED AT: Forty Fort High School, Forty Fort, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1939.

marrieD: Ruth E. Merritt, Oct. 18, 1941. cHmpreN: Jeanne M., March 15, 1943;
Daniel Atherton, Jr., July 4, 1945; Sally R., April 2, 1954; John J., May 27,
1957.

occupaTion: Marketing representative, responsible for product marketing in
E.T.A.M. Division, IBM Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Sales Executives; YMCA; Roanoke Country Club; South Roanoke
Methodist Church (official board).

About four months ago I made a decision to leave the happy tran-
quility of living in a small Virginia city and return to the hurly burly
of the New York area with its commotion and pressures. Now my
family and I find ourselves in a period of readjustment with all of its
excitement and all of its pain.

My twenty-five years since Cambridge have been fun, yet they have
been colored with enough sorrow and seriousness to have made them
real and worth while. Financial success has been moderate, social success
adequate, and personal success satisfactory. My two eldest children, a
daughter and a son, are now attending college. Jeanne enjoyed two years
of gracious education at Salem College in Winston-Salem, North Caro-
lina, and is now a junior at Penn State University. Danny is a freshman
at Randolph Macon College in Ashland, Virginia, and unlike his father
is a throughly competent football player. I hope that this mixing of
higher education between the North and South will broaden the per-
spective of these two children in their understanding of some of the
large social problems of today.

Then there are my two younger children, a daughter of nine years
and a boy of six. Sally was born in Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania, but was
reared until four months ago in Roanoke, Virginia. Johnny was born
in Roanoke (my only true Rebel) and is just now getting his first
exposure to the North. Both are now attending school in Westfield.

After three rather inept attempts to “find myself vocationally,” I
joined International Business Machines Corporation in 1945 and dis-
covered that by hard work and some native desire I possessed latent

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1077

talents as a salesman, The next ten active and vigorous years were spent
selling for IBM in Philadelphia, Then in 1956 | became a branch man-
ager in Roanoke where I spent almost eight even more active and
yigorous years managing and selling for IBM. Now five months ago I
accepted a position in product marketing at the IBM headquarters in
New York. Since my current assignment ts in a relatively new endeavor
of my company, I am looking forward to exciting accomplishment in
the years to come. I am hopeful that this new venture, along with the
prolonged period of rearing children, will postpone the inevitable process
of aging which begins to be apparent in the mid-forties.

I know the next twenty-five years will be even more interesting and
exciting than the past. Life should improve politically, socially, and
economucally, There even seems to be a firm hope that no major war
will disrupt this progress. My political convictions are conservatively
liberal. If the latter is a paradox I will explain it by saving that if Gold-
water succeeds I retract the above paragraph. I have been and will
continue to be an active church member. The church has been a wonder-
ful inspiration for my children as they have grown. It has given me a
deep religious conviction based on the ultimate attainment of personal
and social betterment by the grace of God.

Marriage has contributed much to the fullness of my life because
Ruth has been a wonderful partner, mate, and pal. My Harvard ex-
perience gave me a continuing strong intellectual curiosity which will
always I hope motivate me to learn about people, ideas and things.

HAROLD PUTNAM WILLIAMS, JR.

   

HOME ADDRESS: 14 Rolling Lane. Natick, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ford Division, Ford Moter Co. Rox 200, Natick, Masa.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H,

YEARS IN COLLECE! 1935-1939, preaeK: a.w., 1939,

MARRIED: Nancy Sprague Pierce, May 28 1943,

OCCUPATION: Sales executive, Ford Division, Ford Motor Company; general belil
manager, Boston District Salea Othce.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Varsity Club.

1078 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HUGH GARDNER WILLIAMS

 

HOME AbpDRESS: Bremen, Maine; P.O., Star Route, Waldoboro, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Georges Valley High School, Thomaston, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939; A.M., 1942.

marrteD: Daphne Dean Grinnell, Dec. 18, 1942. CHILDREN: Daphne, Aug. 3, 1947;
Roger, April 25, 1949; Hugh, May 3, 1952.

occupaTiON: Head of English Department, Georges Valley High School.

For me the years since 1939 have included three separate careers, none
of them especially distinguished or profitable, but each one full of
interest and special meaning. There were four years in the U.S. Army
which included the Okinawa campaign, several months in Korea, and an
education equal and complementary to that at Harvard. There were
twelve years of farming here in coastal Maine, raising poultry and
cattle. During this period we were occasionally accused of attempting
an escapist existence; however, we can say with some conviction that
no one has felt the impact of the twentieth century more forcibly than
an independent farmer. My third career —interrupted by the other
two—has been teaching. This consisted of four years, soon after
college, in a couple of small private schools, and another four in recent
years as head of the English department in a local regional high school.
This has been a completely satisfying job.

There is a tangible price to be paid for living in an overly rural area.
The house always needs painting (I’m usually too busy sailing to paint
it), and we don’t trade cars very often (but then, neither does any one
else). This price, however, is a reasonable one. For all of us there are
the obvious pleasures, such as fishing, skin-diving, and sailing; Muscongus
Bay and four lakes are no more than five minutes’ drive. More im-
portant is the growth of a perspective — and I think a stability — possi-
ble only to a family with a deeply regional background.

I won’t bore you with my ideas on education; what they boil down
to is a continuing quest for Harvard candidates, and these are beginning

to show up.

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1079

JAMES THOMAS WILLIAMS, Il

  

Ln A REC RRE CT AE

norN: Aug. 17, 1918, St. Louis, Mo. PARENTS: Eugene James Williams, Blanche
Williams.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; Li.B., 1942.

MARRIED: Vivian Wolfe, July 22, 1942, Easton, Pa. CHILDREN: Eugenie Sweetwood,
Aug. 23, 1943; Christine Hubbard, April 26, 1946.
pep: Oct. 6, 1954, New York, N.Y.

During World War II Williams served as a captain in the Field
Artillery Reserve Corps and then became a member of the chief counsel
of the Bureau of Internal Revenue. He was also associated with Arthur
Young, certified public accountant, and the tax department of the
Standard Oil Company of New Jersey. He originated and edited Oil
and Gas Tax Quarterly, a publication dealing with trade tax news and
problems. At the time of his death he was a tax attorney with Everett
& Johnson in New York City. He was survived by his w ife and children.

PETER FAY WILLIAMS

 

HOME AppRESS: 33 Elsmere Terr, Braintree Bb Mlass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Roston Gas Co. 39 Quiney Ave Bast Braintree, Vlass.
PREPARED AT; Nehile and Greenough School, Destham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLKGK: 1945-1910, Okenen: s.a. T9490),

8080 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

wvaniso: Marietta Marshall, Oct. 4 1O8L castones: Marshall F., June 5, 1954:
Gai, beh. 8 be87.

OCCUPATION: Supenntendent, South District, Boston Gas Company.

wrwerr ov, Keamntree Historical Society, Thayer Badmintoa Club.

I find writing a summary of the paxt twenty-five years to be a depress.
ing and dull chore, though the years themselves were nor. Active duty
in the Navy very shortly after graduation because of my ROTC com
MORN prov ed to be interesting, ecering and rewarding, “with no phy si-
cal wars, Work in the gas distribution business, while not at all spectacu-
lar, has been adequate in alinose all respects. Marriage has been a happy
erpericiice and our two children have been a great pleasure. All this
sounds wo humdrum on paper while it wasn e that way at all.

WIV ARREN WILLIAMS, JR.

  

\ 4

“ March UX. T9LS, New Haven, Cono. parests: Warren Williams, ‘06, Mary
harrester.

rasrance at: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, NH.
WRARe EN CoLLE LE: 1945-1980, oneREE: ap. 1939,
vito: Lest early an March, 1943, im Atlantic area.

After graduation Williams studied at the Yale Graduate School in the
Department of International Relations before enlisting in the Navy in
June, tygt, and was commissioned ensign in January, 1942. After a tour
of duty at Naval Headquarters in Boston, he was transferred to Submarine
Chaser School in Florida and was later assigned to a new sub-chaser
at Camden, New Jersey. He served as the executive officer on the
SC rorg. On March ast, 1943, he was promoted to lieutenant (j- g.). He
was reported missing while on duty in the Atlantic area, early in March,
toyz. Ele was survived by his father,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1081

ROBERT PATTON WILLING

    

HOME ADDRESS: 303 Whitestone Rd., Silver Spring, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bureau of Mines, U.S. Dept. of the Interior, Washington 25, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. pbECREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Frances Baldwin Patten, May 9, 1942. CHILDREN: Marcia Christine,
Nov. 13, 1951; Cynthia Patten, Oct. 14, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Supervisory editor specializing in scientific publications.

OFFICES HELD: Information specialist, Washington, 1946-50, regional information
oficer, Minneapolis, 1950-53, chief, Graphic Service, Pittsburgh, 1955-58,
chief, Editorial Services, Washington, 1959-63, acting chief, Division of
Publication Services, Washington, since July, 1963, Bureau of Mines, U.S.
Department of the Interior.

MEMBER OF: Committee on Printing, Graduate School, U.S. Department of Agri-
culture, Washington; Alpha Tau Omega Fraternity; local P.T.A.; Citizens’
Association groups.

PUBLICATIONS: News stories and journal articles prepared in connection with job.

Since getting out of the Army in 1946, I have been associated with
the Bureau of Mines, U.S. Department of the Interior, except for one
vear when I taught at Blake, a college preparatory school for boys at
Hopkins, Minnesota.

My career with the Bureau of Mines has been devoted to either in-
formation or editorial work, and I have been stationed in Washington,
Minneapolis, Pittsburgh and, since 1958, Washington once again. I have
been in charge of a group of editors engaged in editing each year about
800 scientific and technical manuscripts prepared by Bureau scientists
and engineers for publication. In 1963, the Bureau was reorganized
and currently I find myself acting chief of a new Division of Publica-
tion Services. Besides directing an editorial staff, my job includes super-
vising the operation of a printing plant, photographic laboratory, drafting
shop, educational film library (all at Pittsburgh), and the distribution
of Bureau publications. At this point, I wish I knew more about budget-
ing than about editing. Although I'll never get wealthy working for
Uncle Sam and have a demanding, high-pressure job, 1 find my work
eminently satisfying with rarely a dull moment.

My family has adjusted well to suburban Silver Spring, Maryland.
My two daughters attend Montgomery County public schools. Marcia,
aged twelve, is in junior high school, and Cynthia, aged ten, is in the

1082 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

fifth grade. Both girls sing in the junior choir of Grace Episcopal
Church, where we attend services. For relaxation, I find gardening a
wonderful antidote to editing manuscripts. In the summer, I also swim
with my two girls at the nearby family community pool. Other hobbies
include collecting records (classical) and playing the piano. Occa-
sionally, I find myself helping Cynthia change the guinea-pig cage.
Both of my girls have an intense interest in animals, and somehow we
have acquired four cats, four hamsters, and two guinea pigs.

I have not been back to Harvard since 1941. [ hope that 1 can change
this record by attending the Twenty-fifth Class Reunion.

CLIFFORD WALKER WILSON +

 

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 11155 Montana Ave., Los Angeles 49, Calif,

GREGORY MASON WILSON

   

  
  

  

3 4 fi wee ‘ ;
ced ak Sod
HOME ADDRESS: 4531 Mad River Rd., Kettering 29, Ohio.
OFFICE apDRESS: National Cash Register Co., Dayton, Ohio.
PREPARED AT: Westtown School, Westtown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DECREE: a.B., 1939,
MARRIED: Priscilla Steinmeyer, Oct. 2, 1943. cHiLp: Richard Holmes, July 2, 1947,

occupation: Research, product and market analyst; staff assistant to director of
research, National Cash Register Company.

   

Bik uy

— —_—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1083

MEMBER OF: National Association of Accountants; Institute of Electrical and
Electronic Engineers.

After four years (1942-46) in the Army — purchasing and contracting
officer in QMC — | have been associated with the office equipment and
data processing industry in sales, product planning and various mana-
gerial capacities. This has covered four corporate associations plus a

eriod as a self-employed consultant.

Hack at golf, but fully enjoy the fresh air and exercise. In this area
wife takes top honors — former club champ, trophies galore, etc.

WILLIAM EDLIN WILSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 51 E. Main St., Mountville, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: ECMR (REA-1), Olmsted AFB, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLECE: 1935-1936, 1937-1938, DECREE: A.B. (Franklin & Marshall Coll.),
194].

MARRIED: Marian Charles Brooks, April 27, 1939. cHitpreN: William, Dee. 28,
1940; Sandra, Sept. 24, 1942; Stephanie, Feb. 14, 1945; Drew, Jan. 27, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Supervisory purchase methods analyst, Eastern Contract Management
Region, Air Force Systems Command.

MEMBER OF: B.P.O.E.; V.F.W.

My present job with the Air Force, where I have been for the past
four years, requires so much travel (forty to fifty per cent of the
time) that when I get home, I want to sit quietly, listen to good music,
read a good book and enjoy a few beers with friends. When 1 can,
which is fairly often, I sail a small boat ona large lake with my ten-vear-
old son, trolling as we go. Much prefer the leisurely living in a rural
community to the hubbub of city life. Member of the local fire com-
pany but now direct traffic, since my 220 pounds is too much for the
run to make the engine. Am finding that my father’s warning, “As vou
get older, you get less desirable and more particular, and this makes
everyone think you are slowing down, and you are!” is increasingly true.

My wife runs a rather junky antique shop next door, Noting that she
had two antique stills for sale last week, | purchased the small one for
ornamental and medicinal purposes, Nose now deep in distillers’ lore.
Drop in if passing by and find out the results, Soll get up to Brewster
on Cape Cod cach summer for boating, fishing, lobster and san, alrhough

1084 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

each year less time is available for such pleasure because of pressure of
work. Our house is 120 years old and things get fixed as they break
down, and it is doing this much of the time.

Feel that legislation is urgently required to impose an automatic
death penalty on anyone who suggests or imposes additional taxes
whether they be national or local. No one had a better time at Harvard
than I, and the dean and my father agreed on this point at least. Went
on to graduate with honors later, after a happy marriage which, to the
amazement of many, is still intact. After college, I joined AT & T,
then IT & T. Then in 1948 came to Pennsylvania with a small firm
which boomed from 35 employees to 230 in three years, partly, I like to
think, through my efforts, Then the lure of weekends off and multi-
tudinous vacation time beckoned, and I went with Civil Service for
the Army. Only for two or three years, I thought, to find out how the
other side of the negotiating table operated. Somehow, the challenge
and benefits have stretched to twelve years. It looks like it may go
all the way to thirty years.

HAROLD PURCELL WINCHESTER, JR.

    

HOME appress: 138 Columbia Heights, Brooklyn, N.Y.

OFFICE aDpRESS: Silver Burdett Co., Morristown, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Albany High School, Albany, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; a.m. (Univ. of

Chicago), 1951.
occupation: Publishing; editor of secondary school texthooks — social studies.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1085

CHARLES MAYHEW WING

 

apprEess: R.F.D., Canaan, Conn.

* ALEXANDER WINSOR, JR.

 

BORN: April 23, 1917, Weston, Mass. parents: Alexander Winsor, °16, Elizabeth
Bancroft.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936,

MARRIED: Mary Alden Sears.

pieD: Killed in action, Dec, 6, 1944, over Germany.

Alexander Winsor, Jr., spent one vear with our Class, He was in the
mercantile field, associated with Anderson, Clayton & Company in
Boston, before enlisting in the Army Air Corps in tgy2. Ele was com-
missioned in August, 1943, and after further training he few to Fagland
via South America and Africa as co-pilot of a "B-26, After several
missions he was made first pilot and promoted to first Heurenant. He
received the Distinguished Fiving Cross, the Air Medal with two silver
oak leaf clusters and the Purple Heart. He was killed while on a mission
over Germany. Hle was survived by his wite.

1086 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

DAVID BIKLEN WIRE t¢

 
  

LAST MAILING ADDRESS: 55 E. Bellevue Ave., Chicago 11, Ill.

RICHARD WITKIN

  

HOME ADDRESS: 4 Genesee Trail, Harrison, N_Y.

OFFICE appRESsS: New York Times, 229 W. 43d St., New York 36, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Townsend Harris High School, New York, N.Y.; Phillips Exeter
Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; s.m. (Columbia
Univ.), 1940.

MARRIED: Kate Friedlich, Dec. 19. 1943. CHILDREN: Thomas Allan, Dec. 22, 1952;
Gordon, Nov. 11, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Journalism; aerospace editor, New York Times.

Memper OF: Harvard Club of New York; Aerospace Writers Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Edited volume entitled The Challenge of the Spurniks, Double-
day, 1958; major contributer to “America’s Race for the Moon,” Random
House, 1962 (from New York Times series),

As I write this, I am facing the front window of my second-story
bedroom, looking at a greenish lawn in Suburbia, and getting a particu-
lar pleasure out of the banging of a basketball against the net above the
garage door. This is a most satisfying contrast to a youth spent mainly
on the streets of New York. And this life, with a remarkable wife and
two engaging sons, is the only thing Walter Mitty Witkin, during his

wets Sai anneal...
‘“

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT fox

Leverett House vears, accurately dreamed of accomphoshing. My pro.
fessional carcer, aside from the fact that at is New spapering, is galaues
from anvthing | anticipated. But then my foresight as ne more myopic
than, if you except a few science fichon writers, anvene else's. | gy
into flying during the war to get off KP in the Coast Artillery, Atrer
nine vears covering diplomacy for the Unitcd Press from tugs to rs,
I got into aviation writing as a means of finding a place on the New
York Times. ‘Vhen the Russians put up Spurnik Il, and the heron
became infinite.

Job entails covering events in commercial and nulitary aviuron, the
missile field and space. Also moonlight as ance-a- -weck moderator of
Channel 13 (educational TV) news show and as a writer of TV docu-
mentaries, mainly for “Twentueth Century.”

I find newspapering long on stimulus but not so consistently sarnfving
as | hoped ic mhe be. T ‘his is doubtless a result of my own limitations
but it is a fact nevertheless, | find that the more J dig into what makes
various segments of society tick, the lew convinced Dam thar ft knew
where the truth lies. [come away from verv few stories feeling P have
reached the nub of the matter. The problem inant made anv caver by
the fact thar much of what PE must deal wath as highly technical and
subject to a variety of security restemcnons and gov crmmental attempts
at news management, On the other hand, | feel lucky being able to earn
a living in a ficld where boredom is impouble and where vanety is
an hour-by shout phenomenon.

My hobby is my family. My wife, who was a profesuanal ballet
modern dancer for tmanv vears and still participates in an occavonal
concert, keeps my technical: -political interest from giving eur lite too
one-sided an cimphasis, We have been extravagant about travel, and hhe
nothing better than intruding on a painter in hs Teft Rank sabe and
perhaps buying a lithograph out of the even.

My elder son ops up the technical heerature Po being home ant os
bound to end up at Cal Tech of RPL The younger how ms more of a
pixie and, while he is interested in astranaury 6 ako a hambone, a mume

and devotce of the National Geographic, What «hool all that qualines
him for Vn sure § don’t know,

RICHARD BENJAVUN WOODBURY

1088 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

HOME ADpRESS: 1801 Hoban Rd., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20007.
OFFICE ADDRESS! Division of Archeology, U.S. National Museum, Washington, D.C.
5.

PREPARED AT: Western High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREES: S.B., 1939; a.m., 1942; PH.D., 1949,

MARRIED: Nathalie Ferris Sampson, Sept. 18, 1948.

occupation: Anthropologist; archeological research.

oFFices HELD: Archeologist, United Fruit Company’s Zaculeu Project, Guatemala,
1947-50; associate professor, Dept. of Anthropology, University of Kentucky,
Lexington, 1950-52; associate professor of anthropology, Columbia University,
1952-58; member of faculty, full-time research in Arid Lands Program, Uni-
versity of Arizona, 1959-63; treasurer, 1953-54, editor, 1954-58, president,
1958-59, Society for American Archaeology; member, Division of Anthropology
and Psychology, National Research Council, 1954-57; member of Council,
American Association for Advancement of Science, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: American Anthropological Association (fellow); Sigma Xi; Archeo-
logical Institute of America; Northern Arizona Society of Science and Art
(research associate); Massachusetts Archaeological Society; Cosmos Club,

Washington, D.C.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, American Antiquity, 1954-58; founder and editor, Arid
Lands Research Newsletter, 1959-60, Abstracts of New World Archaeology,
since 1959; co-author, The Ruins of Zaculeu, Guatemala (2 vols.) : assistant
editor, Societies Around the World, Dryden Press, 1953, 1956; “Prehistoric
Stone Implements of Northern Arizona,” Peabody Museum Papers; “Prehis-
toric Agriculture at Point of Pines, Arizona,” Society for American Archae-

ology.

Harvard means many things to many people. To me it meant more
than friendships, intellectual awakening, and the pleasures of Cambridge
and Boston, It meant the training in archeology that I went there for,
its expansion into the whole field of anthropology, and the rigorous and
exciting work that led to the Ph.D, The interruption of World War
II brought fascinating experiences as a weather man, with two years in
the States and two years in tropical Australia and New Guinea — and
that’s plenty.

In a very real sense, life began in earnest after the war — employment
as an archeologist in Guatemala, finishing a Ph.D. thesis during an
arduous summer in Cambridge and, most important, marriage. Profes-
sional endogamy has been highly satisfying; a wife who is a colleague,
collaborator and critic can still be the thousand-and-one wonderful
things that other wives are too. We have had six stimulating years in
New York, where I taught at Columbia and she at Barnard; field trips
in the Southwest for archeological work; and most recently five years
of research in Tucson where I have been investigating the problem of
how the prehistoric Indians managed their scant water supplies. Now
we are on the verge of moving to Washington; I have accepted a posi-
tion as archeologist in the U.S, National Museum and will continue my
work there, where so much of the early anthropological research of
our country was done. Washington will not offer the spaciousness of
life in Arizona, but it will offer a stimulating intellectual environment.
We have realized that one usually must choose between two kinds of
climate — meteorological and cultural, few places are ideal in both
respects.

It is sobering to add up the accomplishments that can be identified
with a quarter-century of busy living; but beyond the activities that
can be listed, and dated, a high place should be given to the enjoyment,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1089

adventure and satisfaction that can come with a successful career in
one’s chosen field of endeavour, Even more important is the remarkable
fact that the world is still full of zest and joy, in spite of countless reasons
for discouragement or despair. The unknown still beckons the explorer,
whether on a mountain top or a desk, and one life will always be too
short to reach the end of even a few of the alluring trails that keep
opening before us.

ROBERT GUITNER WORMAN

 

HOME ADpRESS: 1159 Harrelton Ct., Evansville, Ind.

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Electric Co., Mount Vernon, Ind.

PREPARED AT: White Plains High School, White Plains, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Angela Zammitti, 1952. cHicoreN: Richard Allan, March 28 1955:
Wayne John, Sept. 24, 1960.

occuPATION: Chemical manufacturing; manager, manufacturing engineering;
responsible for process research and development, new plant design, construc-
tion and startup.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; miscellaneous local clubs.

The Twenty-fifth finds me still doing the things [I like second-best
in life—developing new chenucal processes, putting them into com
mercial plants and getting the businesses under wav. This time it's
polycarbonate resins for General Flectric. The w ork is ideal for me—
highly creative, of infinite variety, posing staggering problems daily
(it took years for me to learn that cliches mean much more in busines
than English A English). The work demands so much time that I
bother with few clubs and organizations preferring to spend my spare
hours on the staggering problems created by mv highly creative wife
and two boys. ‘The things we like best in hfe invelye blue sea water,
sand and palin trees in the middle distance, but we haven't vet found
a way to make them a full-time occupation.

After many years of ving in various parts of the country (including
New E ngland ), we have found Fvyanwville to be the first place we have
wanted to put down root. Its a town where stranger sav “Ciood
morning” on the street and vou can sall get a good incal ina restaurant
for seventy-five cents There is good cheral saying aod eveeileste
amateur art. The town attracts good talent: trom outside — Reoadway



1090, HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

stock, Hollywood groups, symphonies, ballet — and we need only ten
minutes to get to it from our home on the edge of the country. We
hope we are still here for the Thirtieth.

HERBERT EDGAR WRIGHT, JR.

   

HOME ADDRESS: 1426 Hythe St., St. Paul 8, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: School of Earth Sciences, University of Minnesota, Minneapolis
14, Minn.

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; a.m., 1941;
PH.D., 1943.

MARRIED: Rhea Jane Hahn, June 27, 1943. cuitpren: Richard F., July 22, 1944;
Peter H., Feb. 16, 1947 (died December, 1954) ; Jonathan R., April 19, 1950;
Stephen R., Dec. 13, 1952; Andrew G., Dec. 10, 1955; Christopher Jeffrey,
Oct. 6, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Professor of geology and director, Limnological Research Center,
University of Minnesota; research and teaching.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous scientific articles on geology.

After graduation I remained in Cambridge for three years to complete
A.M, and Ph.D. degrees in geology under the fatherly guidance of Kirk
Bryan, with a thesis study of an area west of Albuquerque, to which I
had been attracted during a speedy tour of the West during a college
summer. In tune with the fervor of the day, I enlisted in the Air
Force and, after several training camps, when I was first exposed to
Life, 1 managed two duty tours as a B-17 pilot, command pilot, and
group operations officer in England, with no unfortunate experiences.
After the war, I returned to Cambridge for a few months of academic
orientation, taught geology for two years at Brown, and then moved
to Minnesota, which offered a diversified program of teaching and
research. In 1947, with a latent interest in archeology originally engen-
dered by Kirk Bryan, and with the adventure of travel whetted during
the war years, I served as geologist with a group of Jesuit archeologists
who were excavating a Paleolithic rock shelter near Beirut, Lebanon.
Subsequently, I have alternated summer field work in New Mexico,
Minnesota, and the Near East, with odd times in Alaska, Greenland,
Antarctica, and the Rocky Mountains, all the time to study the land-
forms, the current geologic processes and the recent geologic history.
Work in the Near East, especially Iraq and Iran, during Four return



1092 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

my friends continue to be my chief recreation. My family affords me
more and more pleasure as I grow older.

I dislike inflation and the climbing national debt. The trends toward
greater centralization and creeping socialism bother me. However, by
and large, life is good and I hope to enjoy it for many more years,

LUCIEN WULSIN, JR.
SORTS INT TS om

       

HOME AppRESS: 8200 Graves Rd., Cincinnati, Ohio 45243.
oFFice appress: D. H. Baldwin Co., 1801 Gilbert Ave., Cincinnati 2, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DECREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; tu.B. (Univ. of Vir-
ginia) , 1947.

MARRIED: Eleanor Tubman, 1944 (divorced 1959); Joan Friedlander, 1959.
CHILDREN: Lucien, 3d, Sept. 15, 1945; Henry Harrison, Dec. 22, 1947; Jeanne
Power, Dec. 7, 1949; Diane Maupin, June 5, 1950.

occupation: President, D. H. Baldwin Company, manufacturer and seller of
pianos, electric organs and other electronic devices.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra, since 1962; chairman,
Contemporary Arts Center, since 1958; president, Cincinnati Council on
World Affairs; vice-president, City Charter Committee.

MEMBER OF: Queen City Club; Camargo Club; Literary Club; Harvard Club of
Cincinnati; Alliance Francaise, ete.

In the past twenty-five years I have rung doorbells to sell pianos;
Tun an industrial security force, endured the tedium of the U.S. Army;
fought against the German Army; became nauseated with the smell
of the dead; enjoyed the luxury of military convalescence at the tax-
payers’ expense; taken the benefits of the G.I. Bill to get a legal educa-
tion; practised law; dabbled in politics, voted for a Republican or
Democrat for president, as I chose; married; fathered four children;
delighted in their growth, trials and education; divorced and married
again. Tam now mad about my wife. [love her children and my children.

I am a staunch conservative, a Consular Agent for the French Republic,
a “corporate executive” (a ghastly term); and a sceptic. I don’t believe
in the unflagging rightness of Harvard College, the Supreme Court,
Charles de Gaulle, my friends, or my business; I have not educated
myself as I should, I still enjoy dancing with my wife to a good jazz
band, drinking bourbon whisky; smoking good cigars after breakfast;

1094 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Nor satisfied with my tactical knowledge in destroying dummy tanks,
the Army decided to curb my military ambitions and found the perfect
cover in a tiny puncture in my left eardrum.

So in September, 1941, I found myself with a gold button on my lapel
and new ambitions — this time to be a rich merchant. Off I went to
Filene’s in Boston, After Pearl Harbor I knocked on the military door
again but without success, Stacking ladies’ girdles seemed a bit un-
patriotic, so in the fall of 1942 1 hied myself off to Washington again.
Much to my surprise I found myself working for the staid old State
Department. For about a year it was just a bit of correspondence and
historical research, but then an opportunity opened up for a brash
young man to work on economic warfare problems. Nothing has been
as exciting since then.

1 continued on in the Department after the war — working on such
diverse problems as German and Japanese assets, commercial policy,
and German trade. Ac the end of 1950 I had my first chance to go
abroad. The new West German republic was being brought into the
international fold and given a chance to negotiate at the second GATT
tariff conference at Torquay, England. I went to the conference as the
State Department member and thoroughly enjoyed myself at what the
British delightfully term “the English Riviera.” My good spouse man-
aged to join me for three of the six months.

At the end of 1952 the opportunity to go abroad arose again, this
time at the Office of the U.S. High Commissioner for Germany in Bonn.
There I stayed until the spring of 1955, working on East-West trade
matters and enjoying with the family the dark wonders of the Rhine-
land. After home leave and official integration into the Foreign Service,
I returned with the family to Germany — but to Berlin instead of Bonn.
We all thoroughly enjoyed our tour in Berlin. The Berliner has a
special sense of humor and affection for the Amerikaner. It was in
Berlin that ] renewed my ties with Harvard; with a few others I helped
found a Harvard Club of Berlin. Among our members were men who
lived in the Communist sector of the city.

In July, 1957, 1 went back to Washington for about eight months —
home leave, the so-called “Midcareer Course,” and training in French —
the latter two at the Foreign Service Institute. In March, 1958, I was
off to Saigon, Viet Nam, for a two-year tour. Things were a great
deal quieter then than at the time of this writing. In Saigon I found
two classmates— George Bogardus and Doug Blaufarb. Len Unger
(now ambassador in Laos) was DCM in Bangkok at the time. We had
a big Harvard-Yale bachelor party one night before the Big Game and
the drinks generated enough wagers to make a lot of Harvards quite
wealthy when the returns were in the next day. Except for a last-minute
bout with hepatitis, the Saigon experience was very rewarding.

We left Saigon in May, 1960, for a leisurely boat trip back to the
States. We purchased a home in northwest Washington and I went
back to work in the State Department. After a number of jobs in the
Department I was assigned to the Arms Control and Disarmament Agency
in May, 1962. I have been there ever since. The arms control and dis-
armament field is “new” in its impetus and implications and I find it
most interesting and most satisfying. In February of this year I made the

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1095

decision to resign from the Foreign Service and stay on with the Arms
Control Agency.

I haven’t had the time or residence stability to do much in the way
of developing serious hobbies. Sailing, whenever | get the chance, is
still a favorite. Maintaining my house and garden is part hobby and
part chore. At times I’ve enjoyed bridge, particularly the duplicate
variety. The present family task is to get the girls off to college in the
next few years and to keep old Dad from the poorhouse. The matter
of the family tradition at Harvard won’t come up until 1969, so we've
got five years to get the grades up.

KENNETH TODD YOUNG, JR.

g
i
|

  

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Bonnett Ave., Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE appRESS: Rockefeller Brothers, Room 5600, 30 Rockefeller Plaza, New
York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1937-1939. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1939; a.M.,
1942.

MARRIED: Patricia Morris, Oct. 30, 1943. CHILDREN: Stephen Bonsal, Nov. 2, 1945;
Edward Morris, Nov. 4, 1948; Katherine Todd, July 31, 1953; Christina Ross,
Sept. 21, 1957.

HARVARD SON: Stephen Bonsal Young, 67.

occuPATION: Public service; associate, John D. Rockefeller, 3d, 1964.

OFFICES HELD: Office director, U.S. State Department, 1952-58; executive, Standard
Vacuum Oil Company, 1958-61; U.S. Ambassador to Thailand, 1961-63;
trustee, Harvard-Yenching Institute; Visiting Committee Member, Department
of Far East Civilizations, Harvard University, 1958-63.

MEMBER OF: Century Association, New York City; Harvard Club of New York.

Most of my twenty-five years have been spent in U.S. government
service inspired by Professor Arthur Holcombe following eighteen
months in China during sophomore year. Since then I have focussed on
Asia — my vocation and avocation — with many visits, High point in my
life so far was my assignment in 1961-1963 by President Kennedy as
Ambassador and his Representative to the Kingdom of Thailand with
my wife and four children. An unusual, ditticulr, exciting, challenging
job managing a large mission in critical troubled Southeast Asia. Len
Unger, also ‘39, straddled the Mekong. My family enjoved Thailand,
learned to speak some Thai, and traveled a lot. We tried to bring a

1096 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

new approach— the New Frontier —to U.S. diplomacy in Thailand —
contacts with students, young professionals, artists, soldiers, local officials
and rural people — small impact aid.

From 1948 to 1958, I did diplomatic work in State and Defense
Departments for Dean Acheson, General Marshall and John Foster
Dulles on Asian problems. This took me to the Japanese Peace Con-
ferences with Dean Rusk, Panmunjom, the Geneva Conference of 1954
and the Summit of 1955, and several sessions of the United Nations. I
spent three interesting years in the fabulous petroleum industry with
Standard Oil of New Jersey during 1958-1960.

We have traveled a lot since the war—to Asia, Europe and Mexico.
Our interests revolve around American politics, pre-Columbian and Asian
archeology, Asian arts—sculpture, painting, and architecture, con-
temporary American painting, and social problems of developing nations.
My Vassar wife has become an authority on Asian architecture and
sculpture and women’s affairs, We are a family of books and Cape Cod
vacations rather than animals or hobbies. We continue strong in a liberal
outlook in living, politics and religion. Washington, D.C, and New
York City are home to us.

I have kept in touch with Harvard as trustee of Harvard-Yenching

Institute and nine years on the Visiting Committee for the Department of
Far East Civilizations. And now my son is an enthusiastic Harvard fresh-
man.
I have been active in the Council of Foreign Relations in New York,
written some articles, and made more speeches than I care to remember
— mostly on Asia. Also the Asia Society as well as the Harvard Club
and Century Association have been interesting for us in New York.

Summing up, the years have been stimulating, satisfying and hard
work, bringing up children and thrashing issues in diplomacy. Lots
of hard work ahead. No weighty pronouncements, but | am optimistic

we will keep peace in the world.

ROBERT LORING YOUNG

 

HOME apprEss: 3715 Via Palomino, Palos Verdes Estates, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: The Wayfarers’ Chapel, Portuguese Bend, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass,

«

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1097

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938. DEGREES: 8.8. (Boston Univ.), 1940; ep.w. (ibid.),
MARRIED: Elizabeth Blair Schellenberg, Sept. 4, 1946. cHitpreN: Loring Marr,

Sept. 17, 1947; Sewall Foster, Sept. 16, 1949; Jefferson Blair, April 29, 1953.
occuPATION: Clergyman; minister, Wayfarers’ Chapel.

OFFICES HELD: District commissioner, Boy Scouts of America, 1945-46; treasurer,
vice-president, president, San Diego County Ministerial Association, 1952-56;
director, Armed Services YMCA, 1955-57, San Diego County Council of
Churches, 1953-60, San Diego Chapter, NAACP, 1958-60, California Associa-
tion of the New Jerusalem, 1951-54, 1956-59, since 1963.

MEMBER OF: San Pedro Chamber of Commerce; Palos Verdes Peninsula Ministe-
rial Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Many published sermons and religious articles in denominational
publications.

NORMAN ZAMCHECK

 

HOME appRESS: 63 Kenwood Ave., Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Research Laboratory, Boston City Hospital, Boston, Mass.; 43
Bay State Rd., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical and English High Schools, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1939; M.D, cum
laude, 1943,

MARRIED: Francesca Smiler, 1946. cHipren: Norman Smiler, February, 1947;
Erica Maggy, November, 1949; Deborah, October, 1951; Mark Evan, April,
953.

OCCUPATION: Physician; chief, Gastrointestinal Research Laboratory, Mallory
Institute Foundation, Boston City Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Clinical associate in medicine, Harvard Medical School and Depart-
ment of Nutrition, Harvard School of Public Health: research aseite m
pathology, Boston University School of Medicine; associate viating physician,
Harvard Medical Services, Boston City Hospital; staff physnin, Mount
Auburn, Beth Isracl and other hospitals; executive officer, Mallory Institute
of Pathology Foundation; director, Leary Laboratory, Boston; president and
member, executive board, Boston Gastroeaterological Society.

MEMBER OF: Phi Heta Kappa and medical and scientihe socicties, including:
American Society of Experimental Pathologists; American Gastroenicrologe
cal Association; American Society of Clinical Pathologists; American Federe-
tion for Clinical Research; New England and Maccachusette Pathologiwal
Societies; American Inatitute of Nutrinon; Massachusetts Medal Socety;
Eastern Gut Club.

PUBLICATIONS: About 100) publications, including: "Respirstory Adjustments te
Oxygen Lack in the Presence of Con” Dil DBL and NA. dierscan fous mad
of Physiology, 1940; “The Lung Volume and tte Subsliviemns ia the Epright
and Recumbent Positions in Patients with Congestive Paslure, Pulmenary

1098 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

Factors in the Genesis of Orthopnea,” Altschule, M.D., N.Z. and Iglauer, A.,
Journal of Clinical Investigation, 1943; “The Bromsulphalein Test in the Early
Diagnosis of Liver Disease in Gross Upper Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage,”
NZ. Chalmers, T.C., White, F.W. and Davidson, C.S., Gastroenterology,
1950; “Early Diagnosis of Massive Upper Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage,”
N.Z. Chalmers, T.C., Osborn, M.P. and Ritvo, M., Journal of American
Medical Association, 1952: “Needle Biopsy of the Liver. 1. Its Use in
Clinical and Investigative Medicine and 2. The Risk of Needle Biopsy,” N.Z,,
Sidman, R.L. and Klausenstock, O., New England Journal of Medicine, 1953;
“Qecurrence of Gastric Cancer Among Patients with Pernicious Anemia at
the Boston City Hospital from 1915 to 1951,” N.Z., Grable, E., Ley, A. and
Norman, L., New England Journal of Medicine, 1955; “Management of
Massive Gastrointestinal Hemorrhage on the Wards of the Boston City Hos-
pital,” NZ, A.M.A. Arch, Int, Med., 1955; “Dynamic Interaction Among
Body Nutrition, Gut) Mucosal Metabolism and Morphology and Transport
Across the Mucosa,” N.Z., Federation Proceedings, 1960; “Studies on Gastric
Mucins in Health and Disease,” Hoskins, L.C, and N.Z, Ann. of the New
York Academy of Science, 1963.

I was early introduced to research by my tutors in biochemistry at
Harvard, J. P. Greenstein and D. B. Dill, and M. D, Altschule at Har-
vard Medical School provided the impetus to continue. By the time I
graduated, I shared authorship of several publications and, confusing
technical assistance for collaboration, I thought I] could “do” research. In
those days medical research was done largely by men in internal medi-
cine, pathology, or the “basic” sciences, and I selected the latter two as
possibilities, Accordingly, I split a post-graduate year between pathology
at the Massachusetts General Hospital and medicine at the Peter Bent
Brigham Hospital, before these activities were interrupted by World
War IL.

In Gourock, Scotland, I shared in the consequences of D-Day by
tending an Army Hospital ward full of youths, all lacking in complete
sets of limbs, Later, in Manchester (Davyhulme) England, the Tenth
Station Hospital began to admit large numbers of pregnant military
personnel, As laboratory officer, called upon to confirm by laboratory
test the obvious fact, I achieved local recognition by rounding up quanti-
ties of virgin rabbits and improvising housing facilities —the need for
which quartermaster planning for the invasion had failed to anticipate.
The diversity possible in the Army Medical Corps became even more
apparent when I was next assigned to the Army (now Armed Forces)
Institute of Pathology in Washington, D.C., where a distinguished com-
pany of scholars, gathered from leading institutions throughout the
country, produced classic studies on military and civilian medicine. Here
I collaborated with Alan R. Moritz, then professor of legal medicine at

Harvard, in a study of the medical causes of sudden death, and also

completed a paper on aspects of suicide and homicide among military

personnel.

After discharge from the Army, I returned to Moritz’s laboratory at
Harvard to pursue experimentally the apparent role of the adrenal gland
in some types of sudden death. After two years of animal investigations,
I returned happily to human patients and compellingly clinical problems
at the Harvard Unit in the Boston City Hospital, where I have been
for the past fifteen years, studying disorders of the liver, stomach, in-
testines, and pancreas, such as massive gastrointestinal hemorrhage, alco-
holic cirrhosis of the liver, cancer of the gut, and sprue.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1099

Human disease is a complex of innumerable variables constantly
shifting and its elucidation requires the joint efforts of men trained in
many sciences, and my group has included pathologists, nutritional bio-
chemists, microbiologists, physiologists, as well as men trained in internal
medicine and radiology. The twenty or so young physicians who have
trained with me, as well as many medical students, have provided a con-
stant infusion of energy and young ideas responsible in part for many
of the published studies.

Thirteen years ago Francesca and I moved “temporarily” into a
roomy, but undistinguished 100-year-old frame house in Newton Center,
in order to allow (1) Norm and (2) Rickie the freedom to run and
romp. Eight years later, when (3) Debby and (4) Mark appeared
civilized, it seemed time to put up a few curtains and lay down a rug
or two. As of Reunion date, we shall have accumulated approximately
fifty-five child-years of the toys, joys, pains, pills, shoes, fears, buckets
of tears, bills, smells and sleepless nights that make up parenthood. We
have participated in the P.T.A.’s of three public schools, Mason-Rice,
Weeks Junior High, and Newton High, and have contributed occa-
sionally to the Christmas Funds of five private schcools, Fessenden, Park,
Brimmer and May, Roxbury Latin and Exeter.

The above events soon caused acute financial cramps and eight years
ago I exploited my laboratory experience by becoming a consultant
to a private medical laboratory, founded thirty-five years ago by a dis-
tinguished Boston medical couple, Drs. Timothy and Olga Cushing
Leary, both now deceased. Increasing responsibiliry for the Leary
Laboratory has involved me with the problem of providing specialized
laboratory services to many small community hospitals throughout New
England.

Despite the press of these activities, and largely because I cherish the
privilege of a physician’s relationship to a patient, I have maintained a
limited private consultative practice in gastroenterology.

These twenty-five years have increased my considerable feeling of
gratitude to Harvard for encouraging my early steps into biology and
biochemistry and for directing them finally into medicine, which has
a way of commanding one’s devotion throughout a lifetime.

Harvard appears to me to be an extraordinary fellowship of men
with ideas in an environment which somehow directs their energies
toward excellence. That these men are gathered from all shades of
social, political, cultural, professional and religious backgrounds gives
me hope for the future of the Democracy. If Harvard's special reverence
for the status of the individual is to be preserved, however, while the
Democracy increases in size and complenity. ] think it will need the
best of the aspirations and the efforts of all of us,

1100 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

PAUL ZEIDEL

 

HOME aporEss: 8 Robinhood Rd., Natick, Mass.
OFFIcE appRESS: Harlemark International, Inc., 38 N. Main St., Natick, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Clinton High School, Clinton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1937,

MARRIED: Sonia Muriel Tratten, June 10, 1945. cHmLpREN: Harrie (girl), Feb. 3,
1948; Leslie Ann, Nov. 8, 1950; Mark Lawrence, Sept. 3, 1954.

OCCUPATION: President, Harlemark International, Inc., manufacturers of medical
textile preducts to the hospital and consumer markets.

OFFICES HELD: President, Porter Drug, Middlesex Drug; treasurer, Wayland
Drug; chairman of the board, Hayden-Forbes; vice-president, Temple Israel
of Natick; director, Economy Distributor Services; president, Harlemark In-

ternational, Inc.
MEMBER OF: Temple Israel Brotherhood; Framingham Country Club; Everett C.
Benton Lodge; Perfection Lodge; Société Gourmet of Natick and Wellesley.

For most of the past twenty-five years, I have been involved in the
drug business, basically on the retail level. At the time of the writing
of the Twentieth Anniversary Report, I had been experimenting with
fibres imported from Europe which had properties I felt would be of
value in the medical field. Fibre technology in medicine was just coming
into its own. | was fascinated by the field and its potential rewards —
both spiritually and financially. Harlemark International, Inc., was
formed in 1960, and the growth of this new business has necessitated
my liquidating all my drug stores, save one, which is being run by my
management.

Harlemark manufactures hospital sheeting, incontinent garments, and
in 1964 we will introduce a line of athletic undergarments which have
already been tested and accepted by several professional football teams
in the country. These undergarments have the property of absorbing
no moisture, remaining dry and thus allow an athlete to pursue his sport
in dry comfort. I hope our good fellow alumni so prominently associ-
ated with the federal government will not interfere if we try to restrict
the sale of this line in the Ivy League to our own teams.

The last five years have been exciting; the children are now more
adult; my teen-aged daughters are popular; and my son reads the
encyclopedia for relaxation; Sonia looks younger than she did when
I married her; I am fighting the battle of the bulge. We now tend to
avoid the rigors of skiing trips to enjoy the sunshine of the Caribbean.

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT TIO!

Having been blessed with good health, reasonable progress in my busi-
ness, and a fair share of success in such community projects | have been

fortunate enough to be associated with, I am grateful for all [ have
received,

Lam looking forward to the Reunion, and I hope that we shall have the

pleasure and good fortune of attending many more together.

STUART WENDELL ZIMMAN

    

HOME appreEss: 4 Millen Circle, Malden 48, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hornblower & Weeks, 75 Federal St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Lynn Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939, DEGREE: A.B., 1939,

maRRIED: Ethel C. Robinovitz, Dec. 25, 1939. cuttoreEN: Nancy Ruth, Nov. 25,
1944; Wendy June, Sept. 18, 1948.
OCCUPATION: Stockbroker.

MEMBER OF: Kernwood Country Club; Temple Tifereth Israel; Boston Investment
Club.

My twenty-five years since graduation have passed in what seems
in retrospect the twinkling of an eve. I married my charming wife
Ethel six months after graduation and have two young ladies — one at
Jackson College, the other at Cambridge Academy — from that happy
union.

I spent the first three years out of college in the toy industry in mv
own firm and then spent three years in the service in World War IL
1 have an unusual and varied grab bag of memories of the war vears
including everything from trash detail to writing a detailed history and
bibliography of all research programs carried out by my outfit — the
Climatic Research Organization,

The next dozen years after the war were spent in the wholesale
shoe business with my own firm, where I learned how large a country
we have — the hard way, Tired of chasing my tal, in tgs TP went into
the department store ficld as merchandise manager and vice-presulent
of Zimman's, Inc. In 1gé6o TF made another shift and went aro Elorn-
blower & Weeks as a registered representative or broker.

I find my work fascinating and challenging, The amount of knowl
edge necessary is astronomical but available. My only complunt os
that Tam in an industry that is rarely af ever rupht. You cither buy toe

1102 HARVARD CLASS OF 1939

early or too late and sell too soon or not soon enough. If things work
out well your account is clever to have made the choice; if, however,
the stock or bond doesn’t perform as expected you should have stopped
him. But every field has its peculiar hazards and this is one you learn
to live with after a while.

Our leisure time is spent pleasantly with a comfortable circle of
friends at golf, bridge, entertaining, the theatre and occasional jaunts
into the country. All in all, things are well with me in this Reunion year.

The following reports were received too late to be included in the
alphabetical section.

JAMES LEO GUILMARTIN

HOME ApprRESsS: 7930 5.W. 68th Terr., Miami, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Guilmartin and Bartel, 1527 Alfred I. duPont Bldg., Miami, Fla.
33131,

PREPARED AT: North Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1939(41); Lu. (St. John’s Law
School), 1945.

marrieD: R. Joan Sengstock, 1942 (divorced 1951) ; Eileen Marjorie Landon, Jan.
19, 1952. cHtLpREN: Kenneth Kells, May 29, 1946; Susan Liane, Aug. 5, 1954
(died Nov. 6, 1956); Nancy Leydon, Sept. 23, 1955; Laurie Ann, March 3,
1958; James Landon, Jan. 24, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Senior partner — law firm.

OFFICES HELD: President, South Florida Chapter, 1959-60, regional vice-president,
1961-62, Federal Bar Association; U.S. Attorney, Southern District of Florida,
1953-59; executive director, Florida Citizens for Eisenhower, 1952; general
counsel, Young Republicans National Federation, 1952-53; national chairman,
Youth for Eisenhower, 1952; president, New York City Young Republican
Club, 1949-50.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Miami and New York; Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Phi
Delta Phi; Exchange Club; La Gorce Country Club; Surf Club; Coral Gables
Country Club; Association of the Bar of the City of New York; American,
Federal and Dade County Bar Associations.

In my last semester at the College, in the winter and spring of 1939, I
had a severe bout with pneumonia, spending many weeks at Stillman.
Thereafter, although I passed the general examination, I made up the
necessary courses at the Summer School, and went to New York City
where I began a long and fruitful association with the law, particularly
trial work. I began as a suit preparation man for the litigation staff of a
major insurance company, and spent my days in the State and Federal
Courts of Greater New York and the nearby counties and my evenings
at St. John’s Law School, where I took an LL.B. in 1945. After six years
with a major Wall Street firm in its trial section, 1 moved to Florida and
was admitted to practice there in 1951,

Politics had interested me since 1946, and I had been active in New
York Republican circles. In 1952 I was asked to head the “Youth” group
of the national campaign to nominate General Eisenhower. Subsequent to
the campaign of 1952, I returned to Florida and trial practice and, in 1953,
accepted the appointment as U.S. Attorney. For approximately six and
one-half years, this assignment kept me busy handling a wide variety of

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT 1103

trials and appeals, both civil and criminal, for the United States, and
supervising assistants in Miami, Tampa and Jacksonville. In late 1959 I
returned to private practice in Miami where we enjoy not only the
climate, but a busy federal, state and foreign practice.

Kenneth, my elder son, admitted on the “waiting list” to Harvard at
age fifteen, has decided to defer his Dad’s alma mater until graduate
school, and is presently a freshman at Swarthmore. Nancy, eight years
old, has become an accomplished equestrienne, and I have been blessed by
two more youngsters, Laurie, six, and James Landon (Biff) who ts three,
Eileen and the children and I plus two boxer dogs and a “beagle-dach-
shund,” live some twelve miles south of Miami in a pleasant Florida-stvle
home within easy access of beaches, airports and highways and yet pro-
tected from traffic and the glitter of Miami Beach.

Golf, swimming in the backyard pool, and occasional entertaining are
our forms of relaxation, with an occasional trip to Europe, Laun America
or Canada when time permits.

Recently, recognizing a need to acquaint our children with a different
physical environment, and perhaps expressing our own desire for a change
of scene, we have acquired a home in the southern Appalachians on a

lake near Hendersonville, North Carolina, where we plan to spend part
of the summer months.

SAMUEL HENRY BLOOM

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Hallwood Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Crocker & Winsor, 5 Fish Pier, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Dorchester High School, Dorchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREE: a.B., 1939.

MARRIED: Edith Salvin, 1939, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Phyllis, Nov. 8, 1940;
Patricia, Oct. 27, 1947; Jacqueline, Aug. 17, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Owner — wholesale seafoods.

OFFICES HELD: President, Boston Fisheries Association, 1960-64; director. National
Fisheries Institute, 1958-64; treasurer, Ocean Fisheries, Ine. 1955-64.

MEMBER OF: Blue Hills Country Club; A.F. & A.M.; Shrine.

