*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

RVARD CLASS
OF 1940
y-fifth Anniversary Report

 

CAMBRIDGE
—inted for the Class

1965

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

*Robert Knight Peirce
*Lewis Randolf Peyton
Samuel Felton Posey
Daniel Stewart Roosevelt
Philip de Neufville Ruprecht
#Gordon William Schall
Robin Scully
*Charles Sidney Shafran
*Allen Lane Snyder, Jr.
William Potter Sockman
Donald Michael Sternglanz
Walter Ralph Sykora

De Vere Oliver Thompson
Oliver Thorndike
William Penn Tuttle, Jr.
Peter Van Pelt
John Kimball Weiss
*Herbert Frazer Welsh
Robert Shaw White
Benjamin Wilcox, Jr.
Eugene James Williams, Jr.
Paul Norton Williams
Warren Winslow

Harry Wilmer Wood

[ viii J

Harvard Class of 1940
Records of the Class

 

DAVID FRIEND ABERLE

 

HOME ADDRESS; 3325 Storey Blvd., Eugene, Oregon 97405.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Anthropology, University of Oregon, Eugene, Oregon.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B.,
lumbia Univ.), 1950.

MarRigD: E, Kathleen Gough, Sept. 5, 1955. CHILD: Stephen Daniel, May 2, 1956.

occupaTION: Professor of anthropology.

OFFICES HELD: Review editor, American Anthropologist, 1952-55; president, Cen-
tral Anthropological Society, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Anthropological Association (fellow);
American Ethnological Society; Society for Applied Anthropology, Royal
Anthropological Institute of Great Britain and Ireland (fellow); American
Sociological Association (fellow); Eugene Swim and Tennis Club.

pusLications: The Psychosocial Analysis of a Hopt Life-History, Comparative
Psychology Monographs, No. 107, 1951; The Kinship System of tbe Kal-
muk Mongols, University of New Mexico Publications in Anthropology,
No. 8, 1953; Navaho and Ute Peyotism: A Chronological and Distribu-
tional Study, with Omer C. Stewart, University of Colorado Studies, Series
in Anthropology, No. 6, 1957; Chabar and Dagor Mongol Bureaucratic Ad-
ministration: 2912-2945, Human Relations Area Files Press, 1962; various

articles,
BY the time I entered my junior year at Harvard as an English
major, I had decided to do graduate work in anthropology, I did

[1]

sunima cum laude, 1940; PH». (Co-

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

my graduate work at Columbia. I have been very glad of my choice,
and it has been some years since I have had even a momentary wish
for another occupation. It is hard to explain why I find field and
library research and teaching in anthropology so satisfying, but my
enthusiasm seems to be shared by most anthropologists. My time in
the Army was easy, with nearly two years of service in various psy-
chological clinics and a short spell after the war on an attitude survey
in Japan. I did some course work at Harvard in 1946-47 while com-
pleting my Ph.D. at Columbia, and began my post-doctoral career
with three years of teaching at Harvard in social relations (1947-50).
Then I spent two years at Johns Hopkins doing research on Mongol
culture in a project headed by Owen Lattimore (1950-52). Al-
though I was not directly affected, this brought me close enough to
the events of the McCarthy period to make me realize its horrors —
nor do I think we have ever fully recovered from those days. There
followed eight years at the University of Michigan, involved with
two departments — sociology and anthropology — and with the so-
cial psychology program. This was a liberating experience — it
made me fully aware that there were other first-class universities
besides Harvard with different and valuable approaches in the social
sciences. One of these eight years I spent at the Ford Foundation’s
Center for Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford
which gave me some chance for writing.

My principal professional complaints are two: There is little
enough time for writing during the academic year; there is little
enough time for anything during the academic year. My wife is an
anthropologist, and on this account I have learned more than I care
to about the various forms of discrimination practised against women
and specifically professionally trained wives in the academic world.
We spent the year 1960-61 in England at Manchester University
where I was Simon Visiting Professor in the Department of Social
Anthropology. While we were in England I was invited to become
chairman of the Department of Anthropology at Brandeis, A posi-
tion for my w ife was also made available in anthropology. The lure
of two jobs in one place—since she had been commuting forty
miles to work at Wayne — was an important element in our decision
to move. Subsequently, we were very sorry. A speech my wife
made at the time of the Cuba crisis which was antagonistic to our
policy in Cuba very much angered the president of Brandeis Uni-
versity and in the end the general climate there became intolerable.
It was fortunate that at this time I had the opportunity to go to the

[2]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

University of Oregon where I have been since the summer of 1963.
It is an exceptionally pleasant place to work and the three of us
much enjoy the countryside and climate. (People from California
don’t like the eight or nine months of rain; people from the Middle
West enjoy the mildness and lack of snow.) My wife is a research
associate with occasional opportunities to teach.

I spent the summers of 1949-53 doing field work among the Nav-
aho Indians of Arizona and New Mexico and I hope to return to
that area soon again. I have said I find my profession satisfying. It
serves to compensate somewhat for my gloomy outlook on the
world. I am disturbed about my country’s foreign policy and domes-
tic condition. I am sure that there are many people who understand
the realities of what has recently been called the “triple revolution”:
atomic power, automation, and the Negro revolt. To this triad
should be added the struggles of the developing nations. Either al-
most no one who has this understanding is in public life, or those in
public life rarely choose to reveal their understanding. It seems to
me that abroad we are backing a most peculiar stable of horses,
while at home we seem unable or unwilling to live up to what are
supposed to be our ideological commitments. Our answers to auto-
mation are couched in terms of the theories and ideologies of the
1930s. And we are one of the factors that make so many people in
the world walk in fear of annihilation. Most of the constructive
things I can think of involve our having done something different in
the past — I don’t see how to go from here to a better state of affairs.

ALEXANDER ABRAHAM

 

HOME ADDRESS: 930 Park Ave., New York, N.Y. 10028.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Abraham & Co., 120 Broadway, New York, N.Y. 10005.

[3]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

PREPARED AT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1940.

marrigD: Helene Wilk, June 26, 1943. CHILDREN: Nancy Ellen, Nov. 11, 1948;
James Robert, Aug. 20, 1950.

OccUPATION: Partner, Abraham & Company, brokerage firm, since 1945.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, director and chairman, Finance Committee, Young
Men’s & Young Women’s Hebrew Association; trustee and member, Ad-
ministrative Committee, Federation of Jewish Philanthropies, member,
Building Fund Committee, and director and chairman, Budget Committee,
Wiltwyck School for Boys.

MEMBER OF: Committee to Visit Fine Arts Department, Harvard University;
Sardis Expedition; Quaker Ridge Golf Club.

AFTER my graduation ] spent the next several months in South
America where [I ostensibly studied banking but in reality learned
more about the operation of Casinos and Chilean seforitas. On my
return to the United States 1 was surprised to learn that a seat on
the New York Stock Exchange had been purchased for me. I,
thereupon, became one of the two members of the Class to enter the
brokerage business, obviously not too popular a profession in those
days. Fortunately for me, however, the firm I joined had been
started by my father, so I had a slight head start. Came the war! In
February, 1942, I volunteered for the U.S. Army (having been
turned down by the Navy because of poor vision). My duties ran
the gamut from shoveling coal to chasing suspected spies around
Staten Island, but in January, 1943, I arrived at OCS at Grinnell,
Iowa, where after three months of “about face” I received a degree
in Army Administration. It was at this time that I fell in love with
a home town girl, Helene Wilk. We were married at my next post,
Camp Ellis, Illinois, by a justice of the peace. His home was infested
(if that’s the word) with clocks and the short ceremony was inter-
rupted by their continuous chiming. Fortunately the bells are still
ringing for us twenty-one years later.

Three years later, I returned to the canyons of Wall Street, and
Abraham & Company, where I have been ever since. As of now we
have a sixteen-year-old daughter, Nancy, who would love to go to
Radcliffe, and a fourteen-year-old boy who is most concerned with
the Yankees winning the pennant and his bowling scores!

As time went on I felt that it was important to do something for
others as well as for one’s own and I have been devoting more and
more time to philanthropies. I became a vice-president of the
YMHA & YWHA, a trustee of the Federation of Jewish Philan-

[4]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

thropies and a director of the Wiltwyck School, which deals with
disturbed boys.

In addition I have been interested in various hobbies. I have taken
up painting and find it very relaxing (though I am no Renoir!). I
have also read a good deal on archeology and through this interest
found that Harvard was joint sponsor with Cornell of a dig in
Sardis, Turkey. Here we are looking for the palace of King Croesus,
the Lydian millionaire (which we have not found). However, we
have found many important Byzantine, Greek, Roman and Lydian
artifacts, and under the fine leadership of George Hanfmann we
expect even more exciting discoveries in the future. Finally, in
October, 1963, my wife and I achieved the long ambition of visiting
Sardis and seeing at first hand what had been dug up, as well as the
laboratories and restoration work which is so fascinating. I have
recently been named to the Visiting Committee to the Fine Arts
Department at Harvard and hope to find this work stimulating.

Among my few athletic activities, I love golf and so ten years ago
we purchased a summer house in Larchmont, New York, in order
to be near a golf course.

Although an ardent Republican, it is my belief that Goldwater’s
election would be a calamity from which this country could not
recover, and I have been working hard for Johnson’s re-election.

All in all, life has had its bumps but as I approach my 25th Re-
union I feel that it has been all worthwhile and that the future,
while uncertain, will have its compensations.

HOWARD JULIAN ABRAMSON

     

eee

HOME apprEss: 44 Brush Hill Rd., Newton Highlands 61, Mass,
OFFICE ADDRESS: Baron-Abramson, Inc., 15 Kneeland St., Boston 11, Mass.

[5]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939.
marrieD: Ruth B. Simons, June 10, 1941. CHILDREN: Lawrence Mark, Nov. 1,

1946; John David, Dec. 16, 1948; Jean Ellen, Sept. 4, 1953.

HARVARD SON: Lawrence Mark Abramson, ’68.

occupation: President, Baron-Abramson, Inc., sportswear manufacturers.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Apparel Industries of New England, 1947.

MEMBER OF: Adelphi Masonic Lodge; Aleppo Shrine Temples Spring Valley
Country Club.

CAREER: A heart attack suffered by my father in 1938 forced me to
leave school during my junior year. After a few years as a salesman
I organized Baron-Abramson, Inc., with a partner. I have been
president of that firm ever since. We manufacture sportswear for
women and have created our own niche in the sportswear industry.
We enjoy a favorable reputation and a nationwide distribution.
WAR RECORD: I entered the service in 1943 as a buck private and
emerged in 1946 as a full fledged private first class. During that
time I fought on Anzio as a rifleman in the 34th Division and was
awarded the Combat Infantry Badge and the Bronze Star Medal.
After hostilities ceased I spent a very pleasant period as a tour man-
ager of seven-day tours of Italy (and later of Switzerland) for G.I.’s.
I had had sightseeing experience during college vacations as a Gray
Line guide and fortunately it seemed no officer or "enlisted man in
Italy was so qualified. " re

FAMILY: I married Ruth Simons, Smith ’41, in June of 1941, and
enjoyed witnessing my wife’s graduation. During the war she filled
in for me in my business and immediately subsequent to the war we
started our family. Our elder son is in the Class of 1968 at Harvard
and our second son is pointed in that direction. My daughter, who
is only eleven, is not yet academically oriented.

TRAVELS: In the G.I. tour “business,” I became very familiar with
the northern half of Italy and had the pleasure of revisiting the
places and people with my wife when we took the Grand Tour in
1954. In addition to the usual visits to London and the continental
capitals on that trip, we have toured the west coast and Arizona. We
have made several winter trips to Florida. We have spent delightful
vacations in Cuba, Jamaica, Puerto Rico, Mexico and the Virgin
Islands.

SOCIO-RELIGIOUS DATA: I was a member of the group that founded
Temple Shalom of Newton and likewise participated in the organ-
ization of Spring Valley Country Club in Sharon, Massachusetts.

[6]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Each of them in its fashion serves to make life somewhat fuller for
myself and others.

POLITICAL: I always felt I would be a lifelong Republican, but the
candidacy of Jack Kennedy weakened that conviction and a per-
sonal contact with Lyndon Johnson had further attenuated it.
convictions: | have published no books, created no music, written
no laws: but I have led a full and pleasant life, enriched by the years
I spent at Harvard. My wife and I have passed on to our children a
healthy respect for learning, logic and fair play that we hope will
help them as it has helped us and perhaps enable them to derive more
enjoyment from this brief sojourn and to realize their potential to
the fullest degree.

GUILLIAEM AERTSEN, III

 

HOME apprEss: Indian Spring Farm, Mechanicsville, Pa. 18934.

oFFIcE appreEss: Bell Telephone Co. of Pennsylvania, 1 Parkway, Philadelphia,
Pa. a

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

marriep: Mary Wister Geary, March 25, 1944. CHILDREN: Beatrice Howell,
May 27, 1946; Guilliaem, qth, Oct. 10, 1947; Elizabeth Wister, May 4
1950; John Geary, July 26, 1954.

OccuPATION: Marketing supervisor, Bell Telephone Company of Pennsylvania.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, Church of the Messiah, Gwynedd, Pa., 1957-58; direc-
tor, Buckingham Township Civic Association, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Philadelphia Club.

I AM a war veteran with a family, a home and a job. I might have
foreseen that much twenty-five years ago.

But if someone had said, “In twenty-five years, you'll have been
a lieutenant commander in the Navy; you'll be married to a girl

[7]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

you've known since childhood; youll be the father of four wonder-
ful children; you'll live on a farm in Bucks County; and you'll be a
telephone man,” I would not have believed it. Yet, it’s true.

JULIAN ELIHU AGOOS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 63 Black Oak Rd., Weston, Mass. 02193.

OFFICE appress: Allied Kid Co., 209 South St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940,

marriep: Rose Marie Klein, Oct. 14, 1945. CHILDREN: Susan, Aug. 8, 1946;
Emily, April 7, 1950; Alice, March 21, 1953; Andrew, May 5, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Herbert Montwid Agoos, ’37.

occupation: President, Allied Kid Company, leather manufacturers,

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Foundation for Character Education, Boston, since 1954;
treasurer, Delaware League for Planned Parenthood, 1960-63; president,

Jewish Family Service of Delaware, 1962-63; director, United Negro Col-

lege Fund of Delaware, 1956-63; director, Katz Home of Delaware, 1958-

63; treasurer, Harvard Club of Delaware, 1962-63.

AFTER an absence of twenty-four years from the New England
scene, I have returned to Massachusetts only to find that things are
pretty much as they were in 1940. The architecture has become a bit
livelier and there is considerably more traffic in Harvard Square, but
aside from the superficial aspects I see little that has changed essen-
tially. Possibly this is true of our Class as well, although I am hopeful
that it is not.

As for my short saga, it includes, more or less chronologically, an
abortive period asa photographer, four years in the Army, marriage,
managing a tannery, acquisition of four children and the upheaval

of moving my family from Wilmington, Delaware, to Weston,
Massachusetts,

[8]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

During this time I have become a bit less tolerant of my own in-
adequacies and a bit more tolerant of others’. Ever a confirmed
optimist, I am certain the world today is a better place than it was
yesterday and am confident that tomorrow will bring new improve-
ments.

I am most anxious to get this across to my children and am naive
enough to think J am succeeding in spite of a barrage of opposition
from all sides.

+ JOHN GAYLE AIKEN, II

   

ve SS {
a euekoan A)

BORN: June 3, 1919, Chicago, Ill. parENTs: John Gayle Aiken, Jr., Charlotte
Rankin.

PREPARED AT: Northwood School, Lake Placid Club, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREE: A.B. (Yale Univ.), 1941.

pieD: Killed in action, Jan. 29, 1945, in the South Pacific.

AFTER a year with our Class, Aiken transferred to Yale University
where he received an A.B. in 1941. He then spent a short time as
an economist with the National Resources Planning Board in Wash-
ington, D.C., and in September, 1941, enrolled in the Coast Guard
as an ensign. After five months engaged in anti-submarine patrol
and rescue work in the Atlantic, he spent two years as a navigation
instructor at the Coast Guard Academy in New London, Connecti-
cut. He attained the rank of lieutenant in May, 1943, and the
following November, became executive officer of the munitions
carrier, USS Serpens.

Aiken was killed in action when his vessel was torpedoed off

Guadalcanal while loaded with ammunition. He was survived by
his parents.

[9]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

vou've known since childhood; you'll be the father of four wonder-
ful children; you'll live on a farm in Bucks County; and you'll be a

telephone man.” I would not have believed it. Yet, it’s true.

JULIAN ELIHU AGOOS

 

HOME appress: 63 Black Oak Rd., Weston, Mass. 02193.

orFice appress: Allied Kid Co. 209 South Se., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: $.B. 1940.

marriep: Rose Marie Klein, Oct. 14, 1945. CHILDREN: Susan, Aug. 8, 1946;
Emily, April 7, 1950; Alice, March 21, 1953; Andrew, May 5, 1957-

HARVARD BRoTHER: Herbert Montwid Agoos, 37.

occupation: President, Allied Kid Company, leather manufacturers.

OFFices HELD: Trustee, Foundation for Character Education, Boston, since 1954;
treasurer, Delaware League for Planned Parenthood, 1960-63; president,
Jewish Family Service of Delaware, 1962-63; director, United Negro Col-

lege Fund of Delaware, 1956-63; director, Katz Home of Delaware, 1958-
63; treasurer, Harvard Club of Delaware, 1962-63.

AFTER an absence of twenty-four years from the New England
scene, I have returned to Massachusetts only to find that things are
pretty much as they were in 1940. The architecture has become a bit
livelier and there is considerably more traffic in Harvard Square, but
aside from the superficial aspects I see little that has changed essen-
tially. Possibly this is true of our Class as well, although I am hopeful
that it is not.

As for my short saga, it includes, more or less chronologically, an
abortive period as a photographer, four ycars in the Army, marriage,
managing 2 tannery, acquisition of four children and the upheaval

of moving my family from Wilmington, Delaware, to Weston,
Massachusetts,

[8]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

During this time I have become a bit less tolerant of my own in-
adequacies and a bit more tolerant of others’. Ever a confirmed
optimist, I am certain the world today is a better place than it was
yesterday and am confident that tomorrow will bring new improve-
ments. .

I am most anxious to get this across to my children and am naive
enough to think I am succeeding in spite of a barrage of opposition
from all sides.

+ JOHN GAYLE AIKEN, III

 

BORN: June 3, 1919, Chicago, Ill. parents: John Gayle Aiken, Jr., Charlotte
Rankin.

PREPARED AT: Northwood School, Lake Placid Club, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREE: A.B. (Yale Univ.), 1941,

piep: Killed in action, Jan. 29, 1945, in the South Pacific.

AFTER a year with our Class, Aiken transferred to Yale University
where he received an A.B. in 1941. He then spent a short time as
an economist with the National Resources Planning Board in Wash-
ington, D.C., and in September, 1941, enrolled in the Coast Guard
as an ensign. After five months engaged in anti-submarine patrol
and rescue work in the Atlantic, he spent two years as a navigation
instructor at the Coast Guard Academy in New London, Connecti-
cut. He attained the rank of lieutenant in May, 1943, and the
following November, became executive officer of the munitions
carrier, USS Serpens.

Aiken was killed in action when his vessel was torpedoed off
Guadalcanal while loaded with ammunition. He was survived by
his parents.

[9]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

CHARLES DUANE ALDRICH

 

HOME appzess: 23 Elmwood Rd Wellesley, Mass.

oFFice apoass: New England Telephone & Telegraph Co., 185 Franklin St.,
Boston, Mass.

prepared at: North Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: $.B, magna cum laude, 1940; LL.B. 1948.
MaknieD: Elizabeth M. Cannon, July 26, 1941. GampreEN: Duane Cannon, March
10, 1943 (m. Suzanne Creed Moss, April 5, 1964); Peter Cannon, April 28,
1944: Elizabeth, Radcliffe °67, Sept. 10, 1946, John Cannon, June 27, 1949;
Ann, Feb. 5, 1931; Stephen Cannon, Oct. 1, 1955, Amy, Oct. 29, 1956; Mark
Cannon, Feb. 21, 1959; Sarah, June 3, 1963.
HanvagD sons: Duane Cannon Aldrich, '65; Peter Cannon Aldrich, ’66.
Hasvanp BroTHERS: Richard Orth Aldrich, ’42, t1.8, °48; John Colwell Aldrich,
"52.
oocupaTion: Lawyer, general attorney, New England Telephone & Tele-
graph Company.
orrices HELD: Director, Wellesley Trust Company, 1954-62; trustee, Wellesley
Scholarship Foundation, since 1963; member, 1960-63, chairman, 1961-63,
Town of Wellesley School Committee.

MEMBER oF: American, Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associations; Wellesley

Country Club; Wellesley Club, Phi Beta Kappa.

THE first eighteen months following graduation saw marriage and
the beginnings of an insurance career in Hartford. The career was
effectively interrupted by four years of military service. Since I
spent most of those years with a parachute Ficld Artillery battalion
of the soist Airborne Division there were some moments of active
participation to compensate for the stretches of boredom which
traditionally characterize military life.

More important was the fact that sporadic exposure to the system
of military justice during this period stirred an intense interest in
legal problems which survived the outbreak of peace. With the help
of the G.L Bill and the indispensable encouragement of a patient

[10]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and understanding wife I entered the legal profession via Harvard
’ Law School.

The first five years following admission to the bar were spent
in general practice with a law firm in Boston. In 1953 I accepted a
position with the legal department of New England Telephone &
Telegraph Company and have remained associated with that enter-
prise ever since,

In the retrospect required to satisfy Peter Pratt’s pleading for
this meagre material I can see that I have been singularly fortunate
in many ways. Without in any way deserving it, I have possessed
the companionship of a lovely and talented wife. Together we have,
with the usual vicissitudes, greatly enjoyed raising a large and happy
family whose older members seem currently bent on retracing our
footsteps in Cambridge. Last, I am engaged in work which presents
an endless variety of problems, is always interesting and which, I
sometimes fondly i imagine, is useful to society.

In such circumstances only an ingrate could complain that life
had not measured up to his expectations. For the moment, at least,
I have no reservations on this score which cannot safely be kept
until the next Class Report.

DAVID BRADSHAW ALDRICH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 140 Washington St., Geneva, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: David B. Aldrich, Architect, 140 Washington St., Geneva, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; B. ARCH., 1947.

MARRIED: Jean MacNab Short, Jan. 6, 1945. CHILDREN: Katherine MacKenzie,
Nov. 17, 1948; Ann Bradshaw, Feb. 23, 1952; David MacNab, Oct. 13,
1953; Stuart Ripley, April 30, 1958.

[rr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

occrpaTios: Architect, sole member of firm, temporarily, Director of Urban
Renewal, City of Geneva.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, 1935-58 Keyman, 1961-64, Trinity Episcopal Church;
treasurer, 1962-43, president, 1963-63, Geneva Council of Churches; Ex-
ecutive Committeeman, Geneva Ciuzens’ Advisory Council, since 1963;
director, Geneva Civic Music Association, 1956~59.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Geneva (director, treasurer); New York State

~ Association of Urban Renewal Officials, Rhodes Bantam Fleet 25 (skipper,
1964); Seneca Yacht Club; Geneva Historical Society; Geneva Concerts
Association.
pusuications: Reviews of technical publications for professional journals.

THE sum of the first twelve years is simple addition -—a year in
the Harvard Graduate School of Design, four in the Boston and
New York Navy Yards, two more in the School of Design, and five
in Los Angeles.

My Los. Angeles record notes jobs with half a dozen architects,
satisfaction with life on the sunny side of a hillside canyon, fishing
trips, two young daughters. But in 1952 we returned to the Fast
looking for an easier pace, a smaller community where trees and
water were a natural circumstance.

For eight months we fretted in a commuting town in New Jersey,
watched the classified ads. A job as chief designer, the lure of
promised partnership in a small established office, a quiet college
community beside a lake, drew us to Geneva in the Finger Lakes
region of New York. Five years later I had acquired much ex-
perience in poor techniques, mistrust of good intentions, and the
choice of moving on or of launching my own office. We liked
Geneva. Our family, rounded out by the addition of two sons, felt
much at home. We hung out two shingles — Jean as landscape
designer, myself as architect.

We should have seen it coming — the rug went out from under
the local economy. Construction capital went with it. For several
years we scraped along on slim proceeds from a variety of disgusting
oddments — oh, some were fun, some were even respectable, but
many of the commissions of those years are best left buried.

In 1962, Geneva’s lonesome Democrats won the mayor’s office.
They were anxious to find a non-controversial, “professional-ty pe”
Democrat to head the urban renewal program and, more impor-
tant, to portray all its elements in comprehensible form so that they
could be shaped to the city’s best interests, | was appointed Director
of Urban Renewal in the epilogue of a farce played when the

[12]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

previous incumbent refused to resign and, when fired, refused to
vacate the office.

The urban renewal work is fascinating, not only in the profes-
sional interest of re-working the core of the city, but also in the
broad range of related responsibilities — the development and
stimulation to work up city codes, programs for code enforcement,
neighborhood improvements, community facilities, human rights,
property rehabilitation and conservation — anything and everything
pertinent to the improvement of the physical and economic condi-
tion of the city and the living and working conditions of its citizens.

But we find ourselves in a bind between the needs of our family
and the living provided by a city salary augmented by the few
fragments left of my architectural practice. We would like to find
a way out that will provide for our needs without demolishing our
establishment in Geneva. For, in our eleven years here, our lives
have been woven in with the concerns of our church and com-
munity patterned by the challenges of our Victorian-horrible house,
our pleasure in racing a small sailboat, the activities of an easy-
going yacht club, and warm friendships.

LAWRENCE GLENN ALEXANDER

=
Bg
&:
&

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: & Broad St., Lynn, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; D.M.b. (Tufts Coll.), 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harold Gregory Alexander, ’33.

OCCUPATION: Orthodontist.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor of orthodontics, 1950-56, assistant professor, 1957-61,
Tufts University School of Dental Medicine; associate professor of ortho-
dontics, Boston University School of Graduate Dentistry, since 1961.

[13]

—_

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

MEMBER OF: American Board of Orthodontics (diplomate); American Associa-
tien of Orthodonusts; American Dental Association; Charles H. Tweed
Foundation for Orthodontic Research; Eastern Association of Strang-
Tweed Study Groups; Greater Boston Dental Society; Omicron Kappa
Upsilon; Alpha Omega; Sinai Lodge, AF. & A.M.; Harvard Club of the

North Shore.
puBLications: “Extraction of Maxillary Incisors, Rhinoplasty and Chin Im-
plantation in the Treatment of a Maxillary Prognathism,” 1962, “Treatment
of a Borderline Problem,” 1964, American Journal of Orthodontics.
THE time since graduation seems to have been devoted dispropor-
tionately to professional endeavors, to the neglect of other. A whole
decade was consumed before professional training on the graduate
and postgraduate levels was completed. Interspersed during that
period were a year at Harvard, service in the Army Dental Corps in
the Philippines, a brief period in the practice of general dentistry
and an internship at the Salem Hospital.

The years that followed have witnessed the building of a success-
ful orthodontic practice, the gratifying experience of correcting de-
formities of the teeth and jaws of children, and the development of
a fair game of golf.

The division of time between the responsibilities of a practice and
the obligations of postgradyate teaching at Tufts University and
Boston University has not left much remaining for myself. Because
of this, I have recently severed my university ties and have promised —
myself more time for leisure and exercise.

I believe that I have profited from my undergraduate years in
Cambridge. J have tried to express my gratitude through the Fund
and by aiding the Harvard Club of the North Shore in its scholar-

ship assistance to promising boys in my area.

[14]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ EDWARD BALCH ALFORD, JR.

 

BORN: May 1, 1917, Brookline, Mass. parents: Edward Balch Alford, Mary
Dean Hale.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

DIED: Jan. 30, 1961, Concord, Mass.

EDWARD BALCH ALFORD, JR., was an author and actor and
had been living in Paris since 1955. During World War II he served
overseas with the Army Air Forces. He was survived by his sister
whom he was visiting at the time of his death.

ERIK HALWAY ALLEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 37 Spindletree Rd., Levittown, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Church of the Redeemer, Bristol Pike, Andalusia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Chestnut Hill, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; B.D. (Virginia Theological
Sem.), 1950; A.M. (Univ. of Delaware), 1953.

[15]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

aarrien: Jane Elizabeth Palmer, Dec. 22, 19qg. cuttpren: Frik Halway, Jr,
Nov, 14, 1950; Bruce Hampton, Jan. 22, 1952; Nancy Loring, Feb. 27, 1955;
Gregory Kent, Sept. 25, 1056.

occupation: Minister; rector, Church of the Redeemer, Andalusia, Pa.

UPON graduation I entered the Navy with my NROTC commis-

sion. Was stationed at Pensacola and ‘Corpus Christi, then sea duty

on three carriers and a cruiser. Soon after leaving the service went

to seminary in Virginia (Episcopal) and after ordination have had

three parishes. Have been in my present parish about ten years.

While at seminary married a girl from Alexandria. We have four
children, three boys and a girl, all spaced properly between parishes.

Politically, Jam an independent, with an intense dislike of ‘“‘poli-
tics.” ’ Regarding travel, the war vears and immediately after gave
me my only opportunity for trav ‘el. From 1940 to 1947, | ranged
from the west coast to China, and New Guinea to the Aleutians,
logging many boring —and sometimes unpleasant — miles in be-
tween.

Surveving the past twenty-five vears, they have been years in
which ] have become more and more non-conformist in my thinking
—socially, politically and religiously. Conformity — aside from
certain areas where it must be — has seemed to me to be the “kiss of
death” to personality.

DONALD MAHANEY ALLISON, JR.

 

HOME Appress: 14 Othoridge Rd., Lutherville, Md.

OFFICE ADpress: Westinghouse Electric Co. Baltimore, Md.

PREPARED AT; Russell Township School.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DECKLES: $.8., 1440; 6M. 1946) PHD. 1949.
Margiep: Ann Randolph Hersey, Oct. 7, 1944. cust: Jane Porter, Nov. 13, 1951.

[ 16]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Technical management.

OFFICES HELD: Manager, Government Products Group, Bendix Radio Divi-
sion, 1958-61, chief scientist, Bendix Corporation, 1960-61; president,
Vitro Electronics Division, 1961-64; director, Coherent Radiation Pro-
grams, Westinghouse Electric Corporation, Baltimore, Md., since 1964.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Sigma Xi; Annapolis Yacht Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years, and how they flew. At the Twentieth
Reunion one could be casual about the whole affair, but at twenty-
five this antiquing is beginning to take on serious dimensions.

For the record, we have indulged ourselves in several brilliant
careers, none of which have amounted to much except very interest-
ing experience and a quaint stipend known as a salary. Were there
just a market for experience!

Our time has been divided nearly equally between government
service and industry, with a few years subtracted for graduate
school and indecision. The government service comprised civilian
technical assignments with the Air Force. Industrial service has
encompassed both technical and managerial duties primarily re-
lated to defense activities. There is not much difference between
government and industry in this type of activity. Government goes
to great length to establish that something cannot be done, while
industry frequently counters with an elegant demonstration of
how not to do it.

We have been living in Maryland since 1951, which area we do
like. Ann is.a student at the Graduate School of Fine Arts at Hop-
kins and I am the oldest living student enrolled for piano study at
the Peabody Institute. In addition to graduate study, Ann has also
found professional archaeological activity in the Near East to be of
rewarding interest, and goes digging in Turkey in the summer and
I see what I can dig up around town.

Our latest adventure and pleasure is sailing and weekending about
the Chesapeake Bay in a small sloop. Much to the dismay of the
serious sailors in the area, our approach tends to focus more upon
the time of the lunch than the trim of the sails. Our daughter Jane
carries the rating of second mate and bartender “first class.”

Ours is a skillfully disorganized household, carefully tailored to
our own habits, and we like it. At some point we may settle down,
but we might not get around to it. In any event, it is about time
for the Allison family to do something foolish again; and we are all
most curious to see what it will be,

[17]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

THEODORE SMITH AMUSSEN

 

HOME Apress: 2798 Wilshire Drive, Salt Lake City, Utah 84109.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ross, Jurney & Associates, 178 Social Hall Av e., Salt Lake City,
Utah 84111.

preparep AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

marriep: Anne Nelson Cutler, Oct. 14, 1939 (died November 18, 1958).
cumpreN: Deborah Anne, June 15, 1941; Daniel Cutler, Dec. 4, 1943; David
Russell, April 1, 1948; Timothy Dwver, Dec. 26, 1950.

occupation: General advertising — senior copy writer and editor.

oFFices HELD: Chairman, Book Publishers Committee, 19460 Greater New York
fund drive, American Red Cross.

MEMBER OF: The Coffee House, New York City; former member, Harvard
Club of New York, Overseas Press Club of New York, Stamford (Conn.)
Yacht Club, Devon Yacht Club, Amagansett, Long Island, N.Y., Pub-
lishers Lunch Club, New York, The PEN.

1 TOOK a leave of absence from Harvard in 1937 and somehow never
went back, so I guess I'm still on the books somehow. I was offered

a job in New York City in the fall of 1938 as an assistant editor
of what was then called Farrar & Rinehart. This was the beginning
of my book publishing career. In October of 1939, I was married
to Anne Cutler of Morristown, New Jersey. I was an associate
editor at Rinehart in 1945 and then that year entered the Navy.
After boot camp, | was assigned to Washington where I was a
kind of assistant to the deputy director of public information. The
Navy discharged me with no black marks in 1946, and I was grate-
ful to return to my family and job. In 1947, I lefe Rinehart to be-
come executive editor of another publishing house, Reynal &
Hitchcock, and remained there until the firm was bought out by
Harcourt Brace & Company. I served as senior editor there from

1948 tO 1950.
[18]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1950, Henry Holt & Company asked me to join them as editor-
in-chief of their general book division. I remained there until 1953
when I became vice-president, editor-in-chief and general manager
of the trade book division of Rinehart & Company. 1 was also a
member of its board of directors, (During this period, I was also a
director of a movie company, Fred Feldkamp Productions, Inc.)
Rinehart & Company was bought out by Henry Holt & Company in
1960, and just two years before that happened my wife died sud-
denly. The merger of Rinehart with Holt left me with mixed
feelings, and I resigned. I remained in New York with my family
for a bit after that, but I grew restless with the social and moral
climate of that city and a couple of years ago decided to go back
to where I was born, Salt Lake, and live. It was a complete and
most welcome change of pace.

My two youngest sons and I live in a small house here in the
foothills of the mountains. We’re up about a mile higher than the
sea with a lovely view of the Salt Lake valley. I enjoy my new job
in advertising and the relaxed and happy way of life here. Within
less than an hour of our house is our choice of four of the very best
powder ski areas in all the United States, and we’re on the slopes
each weekend. When there is no snow, we hunt and fish and camp
and mountain climb. We live a good life.

I miss to a degree some of my publishing associations, but I
reached my goals successfully in that profession and was fortunate
enough to have worked closely with such of our American authors
as Robert Frost, Stephen Vincent Benét, Carl Sandburg, Mark Van
Doren, Norman Mailer, Charles Jackson and a host of others. I’ve
been lucky in many ways. [m kind of involved in a behind-the-
scenes way in Democratic politics here — a new experience for me,
and I find it fascinating. It’s easy to see that the relaxed and out-
door life here, | recommend most heartily —so when some of you
classmates get weary of the metropolitan rat-race and jungle, come
out here — still plenty of room!

[19]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

OTTO FMANUFL ANDERSON, JR.

 

Home ADDRESS: 1814-E W), Norwood St., Chicago, Il]. 60626.
OFFICE Aporess: Commerce Clearing House, Inc. 4025 W. Pete
Chicago, Ill. 60656.

PREPARED at: Wheaton Community High School, Wheaton, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940,
UN MARRIED.

occupation: Publishers of Topical Law Reporters; manager, custome
department.

CHARLES COMER ANDREWS

 

MAILING ApuRESS: 335 College Blyd., Grenada, Miss

[20]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM HERBERT ANGOFF

 

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Meadowbrook Drive, Princeton, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Educational Testing Service, Princeton, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; S.M. (Purdue Univ.), 1947;
pH. (ibid.), 1948.

MaRRIED: Eleanor Wolk, June 26, 1955. CHILDREN: Carolyn Joan, July 9, 1957;
Douglas Michael, July 28, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Executive associate, Educational Testing Service.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association; Psychometric Society, Amer-
ican Statistical Association; Society of Sigma Chi; American Association for
the Advancement of Science.

PUBLICATIONS: “Test Reliability and Effective Test Length”; “A Problem in
Psychophysical Scaling”; “Measurement and Scaling” (written by request
of the editor for the 1960 Edition of the Encyclopedia of Educational Re-
search); “The Equating of Nonparallel Tests”; “The Estimation of Non-
spurious Correlations”; “Scales with Non-meaningful Origins and Units of
Measurement,” etc.

UPON graduation I found myself in an extremely awkward posi-
tion, for which I began to discover I had just spent four years pre-
paring myself: I could find no employment that related at all rea-
sonably to the sort of academic background that Harvard had given
me. This caused me no great surprise, of course, nor did it cause me
any disappointment with Harvard. In some unexplainable way,
moreover, I was pleased. Nevertheless, there were shoes to buy and
girls to entertain. So I took a job with the Boston State Hospital
for the grand salary of fifteen dollars a week and spent my time
giving mental tests to incoming patients and lecturing to student
nurses on abstruse theories of psychology, for which they had lirele
use and still less patience. In February, 1942, [enlisted in the Army
Air Corps to spend four years working in the Aviation Psy chology

[21]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Program in the selection of bombardiers, navigators, and pilots. {p
sa little hard to say now how much good my presence in the service
did for the war effort. It is much easier to say how much it did for
me, because now I found my interests crystallizing and taking form
—a development that even the most enthusiastic members of the
military will not claim is a common occurrence. What to some
minds may take the edge off this happy report is that my interests
gravitated toward the statistical theory of mental testing — some-
thing that was anathema to all of us in our youth and is despicable to
most of us now. The fact is, 've gone over to the enemy. And
what is more, my defection is not recent. After the war I went back

to graduate school to take a Master’s degree and Doctorate in psy-

chology and mental measurement, and in 1949 I went to work for

Educational Testing Service, the organization in Princeton that

makes the College Board Examinations. Worse still, my own work

at ETS is specifically and directly connected with College Board
tests.

What can I say in defense? Believe it or not, most of the people
who work in this field are dedicated professionals who really believe
that what they are doing is right and good and beneficial to society.
They — we — devote ourselves to the development of better, more
precise methods that will work to the reduction and hopefully the
removal of bias that inevitably creeps into the subjective evaluations
that we are sometimes obliged to make of our fellow men. We may
be fooling ourselves—and we may be fooling ourselves that we
have solid evidence that we are not fooling ourselves — but we even
dare to think that our work is helpful in directing the very able, and
the not-so-able as well, to find the right college for him. We also
think that we are helpful to the colleges that want to maintain high
standards in education and are seriously searching for able students,
and not necessarily privileged students. In a more general way, we
really think that this work helps to implement the democratic point
of view. Our pretenses are vast. We even allow ourselves to think
that what we have to offer may help in the war on poverty by un-
covering and identifying talents that have so far been hidden from
view. You must admit: The objective examination that offers no
special advantage to the student who claims to possess the imponder-
able potential for doing better than he can actually demonstrate —
this is the same objective examination that is blind to color, indiffer-
ent to nationality and religion, and deaf to the claim of

[ 22 |

illustrious

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

forebears. This is the examination that recognizes talent but demands
objective evidence of talent.

On the personal side, I sometimes think that the story I have to tell
is happily and uniquely my own —a patient and understanding wife
and two children who are neither patient nor understanding but
who represent my real fulfillment. Mv family and I live in a com-
munity that | think comes as close to the ideal as anv I know. Prince-
ton is still a small cown of some tw enty-five thousand, and although
its citizens take a typical small-rown pride i in their accomplishments
they have the sophisticated tastes that are characteristic of large-city
intellectuals. This is easy to understand. The town is a Mecca for
research organizations and a haven for academicians of all sorts.
But more than that: Its citizens are alvo aware of their responsibilities
as human beings and they view one another with intelligent respect
and consideration. I have been here for more than fifteen years
working in an atmosphere that I came very soon to love dearly.
This is where my children will have as good a chance as anywhere
ele I know of to develop what we have come over the last two
thousand years or more to think of as the right kinds of attitudes
toward their fellow men.

+ NEWTON DARMAN ANTHONY

 

Born: July 1, 1918, Boston, Mass. parents: Abram Ralph Anthony, ’15, Ida
Darman.

preparrp aT: Hebron Academy, Hebron, Maine.

YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

pieD: Oct. 24, 1944 in the South China Sea.

COMMUESSIONED second lieutenant from the Harvard ROTC,
Anthony was called to active duty December 2, 1940. He volun-

[ 23]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

teered for foreign service in the Philippine Islands, was promoted
to first lieutenant and fought in the defense of Bataan until its fall.
He was taken prisoner by the Japanese on April 9, 1942, and after
participating in the Death March, was imprisoned. While being
removed as a prisoner of war from the Philippine Islands to the

Japanese mainland, he was lost in the sinking of a Japanese transport.
He was survived by his parents.

DION JAMES JOHN ARCHON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 350 Waltham St, West Newton, Mass. 02165.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Suffolk University, Derne Street, Boston, Mass. 02114.

PREPARED AT: Sparta Gymnasion, Greece.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; A.M., 1948, PH.D.,
1951. .

MaRRIED: C. Carol Constantinides, July 14, 1949. CHILDREN: Pamela Mary, July 1,
1950; John James, June 4, 1954.

occuPaTiON: Professor of government and economics, Suffolk University.

OFFicEs HELD: Formerly, associate professor of business administration, Suffolk
University; dean for New England, American Academy of Advertising,
1960-61, 1961-62; area director, United Fund of Boston, 1963; etc.

MEMBER OF; American Political Science Association, American Association of
University Professors, Advertising Club of Boston, American Federation

of Advertisers, American Academy of Advertising, Publicity Club of
Boston; etc.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-authored textbook and published a few articles.

SINCE the invention of the sun-dial, and especially of the clock
in modern times, we have been trained to count the hours, to take
full advantage of the smaller denominations of time. To a lesser
degree, the annual change of our calendars causes us to be conscious
of the arrival and departure of each individual year. But many of

[24]

——————.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

us allow the larger denominations of time to slip by almost un-
noticed. Which is to say that, in my case, the last quarter of a
century went by too quickly; and most of my projects are in-

complete.
One year of graduate school (Harvard Graduate School of Arts

and Sciences) after graduation, a few months of restlessness, and

then the war. Four years of it, mostly in Africa and Europe. From

the viewpoint of 1965, my only worthwhile accomplishment, for
which I was not rewarded, consisted of a report to my superiors,
in which I recommended that we back DeGaulle instead of Giraud
for reasons that seem now obvious, but at that time could not find
many willing ears.

Back in Cambridge in 1946, I took up my graduate work again,
and after 1948, I divided my time between academic work and a
business venture into the importing field in which I stayed until
1954. I received my doctorate from Harvard in political economy
and government in 1951. Early in 1953, I accepted a temporary
appointment at Suffolk University in Boston in a field that was my
hobby, namely business administration, which is probably more
American than any other field. I mastered and taught about seventy
per cent of that field and attained the rank of associate professor.
Since it had become obvious to me that teaching was my calling,
I transferred into my main field, namely, government and economics
with emphasis on government, still at Suffolk, and attained the rank
of full professor four years ago. My interests now, and perhaps the
remainder of my life, center around the problems of the citizen in
domestic society; and the problems of the nation-state in inter-

national society.
I find that the two World Wars were civil wars in western cul-
ture and ushered in a period of decline. It is our duty to keep this

decline in check, because western civilization is worth preserving.

[25 ]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

+ JOHN PARKHURST ARMSTRONG

 

BORN: Jan. 4, 1911, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Elias Benjamin Armstrong, Anne
Hillyer.

PREPARED AT: Lenox School, Lenox, Mass.; Browne and Nichols School, Cam-
bridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

marrieD: Eleanor Dashiell Gatch, December, 1942. cHtLp: Jocklyn, January,

1944.

pieD: Nov. 1, 1943, at Crescent Lake, Fla.

AFTER graduation Armstrong enlisted as a midshipman, trained
aboard the USS Illinois and received his commission in November,
1940. He was assigned to the Communications Office of the battle-
ship West Virginia stationed at Pearl Harbor, and when the West
Virginia was sunk, he took command of a small rescue boat. For
a short time he was assigned to the USS Maryland and was in com-
munications on the South Dakota during the battles of Guadalcanal
and Santa Cruz. In December, 1942, the ship returned to this
country for repairs, and he was made a full lieutenant. In February,
1943, he transferred to the Naval Air Force and received his wings
seven months later. While in operational training at Daytona Beach,
Florida, he was killed in a dive bomber crash at Crescent Lake,
Florida. He was survived by his wife and a daughter, born in

January, 1944.

[26]

. 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

* BERTWELL ARONOW

 

BORN: Jan. 16, 1919, Chelsea, Mass. parents: Joseph Aronow, Ida Reisman.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.8., cum laude, 1940.
MARRIED: Anita Frances Weiner, Dec. 27, 1942, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:

Robert Eliot, July 22, 1944; James Richard, Feb. 8, 1949.

piED: Dec. 22, 1952, Providence, R.I.

AT the time of his death Aronow was assistant plant manager of the
Royal Electric Company, Inc., of Pawtucket, Rhode Island, with
whom he had been associated since graduation. During the war his
work involved the production of wire and electrical fuses for the
use of the Army Signal Corps and the Navy. In 1943 he helped
organize the company’s employee publication, The Royal Family,
and became its editor. He was survived by his wife and children.

+ JOHN McDOUGAL ATHERTON, I

 

SRN! Aug. 3 1918, Louisville, Ky. PARENTS: Peter Lee Atherto Cor ¢ «
IRN: a
Anderson.

[27]

a ae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940 ,
PREPARED AT: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B. 1940,
piep: Oct. 21, 1942, in the Battle of the Solomon Islands.

AFTER graduation Atherton enlisted in the Naval Reserve as an
apprentice seaman at Boston. He was later appointed midshipman
and sent to Northwestern University where he was commissioned
as an ensign in December, 1940. Assigned to the destroyer Meredith,
he served six months with the Atlantic Patrol before he was ordered
to the Pacific where his ship was engaged in keeping supply lines
open to Guadalcanal. In June, 1942, he was promoted to lieutenant
(j.g.). He was killed in action in the Pacific Ocean during the

Battle of the Solomon Islands and was survived by his mother and
two sisters,

JOHN SAMUEL ATLEE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 432 Garden City Drive, Monroeville, Pa.

orFice appress: Atlee Research Associates, 432 Garden City Drive, Monroeville,
Pa.

PREPARED AT: Winter Park High School, Winter Park, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1939. DEGREES: s.B. (Univ. of Chicago), 1941; PH.D.
(Columbia Univ.), 1955.

marrigp: Elinore Rosenbaum, April 8, 1944. cHiLpreN: Richard John, May 27,
1945; Thomas Franklin, April 8, 1947,

occuraTion: Economist — research, writing, teaching.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; American Finance Association;
Sane Nuclear Policy Committee; Emergency Civil Liberties Committee
(National Council); Society of Friends (Quakers).

PUBLICATIONS: “The Economics of Disarmament: Monetary and Credit Aspects,”
Econometrica, April, 1962, “Consumer Credit Expansion: macro-economic
analysis and data requirements,” Consumer Instalment Credit, Federal Re-

serve, 1957; “Elastic Stimulants, Institutional Depressants and E.conomic
Balance,” 1955, Ph.D. thesis.

[ 28]

se oc oa tn est, ere
“imee my wife ¢ Bite (a New Yorker and Hunter F Braduate) when
raduate student at the University of Chic cago. Later she
sid clitoral work and fr e-lance writing. Since oe) she has been
education director of the Pittsburgh Planned Parenthood Center,
taking an active part in the “birth control revolution” of the early
Sixties and the growing concern over population control.
Dick, now a sophomore at the University of Chicago, is interested
n biology and mathematics, plays classical guitar. Tom, inclined
wards literature and fine arts, is a high-school senior and a folk-
ging (twelve-string guitar) fan of our troubadour classmate, —
re Seeger. They love books and music and are active in civil
its and peace activities.
fter my Harvard junior year, still undecided on a career, 1
a year out for perspective and experience, working as a Florida
laborer (ten cents an hour), WPA bibliographer (Washington,
, and St. Louis factory worker (UE union).
nsferring to the University of Chicago, 1 got my S.B. in
, 1941. My most useful achievement there was the co-found-
1 very successful public affairs film forum, the Documentary
Oup.
a pacifist at heart, I had jomed the Society of Friends
) in Washington in 1939. When Selective Service called, 1
ered as a conscientious objector. But as 1 realized more
utter ruthlessness of Nazi suppression and indoctrination,
emed to offer too little hope of achieving a peaceful
my social science reasoning won over my conscience.
January, 1942, I spent three years in the States — inchud-
Officer School, special service school, pilot tramng
n school, Then, as a first heutenant, 1 went to Eneland
Bomb Group (B-17's) for five missions over Germany,
(4 ly) ‘ .
ar, “under the G.I. Bill,” 1 studied economics, 90-
litical scence at Columbia, We lived in Shanks V1-
ng veterans’ housing proyect. From IGS 10 19{0,

ime” at Rutgers,
110, I taught at Kenyon (i951 32) and Denton
geS Included corporate organization, coMpAAtWe

economic planning and econorme development,
ne and first chapter Of a hook on the theory at
“Of social power, which 1 someday hope

29

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

finish, and continued work on a study of the political obstacles to

full-employment planning.

During 1954-55, living in a friend’s Catskill Mountain summer
cottage, 1 worked full-time on my Ph.D. thesis, mainly on the role
of consumer credit in our economy. Then I spent six months at
Columbia as research assistant on a World Bank study of the ways
American management know-how is transmitted to underdeveloped
countries.

Since 1956 we have lived in Pittsburgh. During 1956-57 and 1958-
61, I taught at Pitt Business School — mainly money and banking
and other finance courses. During 1957-58, when I had a Ford
Faculty Research Fellowship, and since 1961, | have been working
on a comprehensive analytical “model” of the American economy,

based on the new flow of funds accounting system, which will pro-
vide the statistical basis for maintaining really stable full-employ-
ment growth — and thus help to eliminate the many social ills
caused by excessive unemployment, including juvenile delinquency,
depressed areas, and fear of automation and disarmament.

My chief “hobby” is a keen interest in the problem of achieving
world peace. I have been deeply ashamed of the immorality and
illegality of much of America’s postwar foreign policy. In a sense,
the Golden Rule— the principle of treating others as we ourselves
would like to be treated (if the balance of power were reversed) —
is the basis of all just law, international as well as domestic. I be-
lieve this is the surest key to world peace, and even to sheer survival
in the Atomic Age. Someday I hope to make a movie on this theme.

RUSSELL ROMEYN AYRES, IR

]
}
'
i
|
4
‘

  

HOME Appress:; 254 W, Main St., Cheshire, Conn,

[ 30]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE AppREss: The Risdon Manufacturing Co., Naugatuck, Conn.
PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936~1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.
MARRIED: Sally Stevens, May 31, 1941. CHILDREN: Russell Romeyn, 3d, March 11,

1943; Suzanne and Carol (twins), Feb. 2, 1948.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Burgess Ayres, ’42, Thomas Russell Ayres, ’45, Wil-
liam Morgan Ayres, ’47; Edward Brewster Ayres, ’50, James Bellamy

Ayres, °56.
OccUPATION: Contract sales manager for a metal fabrication company.
OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, 1957-59, junior warden, 1959-63, senior warden, since

1963, St. Peter’s Episcopal Church.
MEMBER OF: Copper Valley Country Club (board of governors, 1962-64, pres-

ident, 1963-64).
I WONDER if at this juncture — twenty-five years after gradu-
ation — it’s natural that our values and measure of values change

drastically. Upon looking back I can’t help but find life good, but
for perhaps far different reasons now. Then, wasn’t our yardstick of
success the materialism of youth? Today, consciously or not, I think
we find we drift away from selfish acquisitions toward the service

of mankind.
For myself I’ve been blessed with a wife who has been a source of

strength and joy and three wonderful children. To support them in
reasonable comfort I work as sales manager of a small manufacturing
company which requires a certain degree of competence in selling,
administrating, engineering and perhaps most of all just plain com-
mon sense. At the same time I’ve participated in the usual civic
activities of a growing family and growing community — Cub
Scout pack committee, P.T.A.’s, fund-raising campaigns too numer-
ous to mention. Still find time for some athletic recreation, chiefly

tennis, golf, fishing and an occasional go at squash.

[31]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

ALFRED ROBERT BABCOCK

 

MALLING ADDRESS: % Mrs. Taman Tanake, 10 Jodoji Shimiocho, Saoyo-Ku,
Kyoto, Japan.

LEMUEL WHITING BABCOCK

 

HOME AppRESS: 1940 Calvert St, N.W., Washington, D.C, 20009.
PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: S.B., 1940,
UN MARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Construction supervisor,

I HAVE lived in the Washington area for several years, after

moving here from Chicago. I have worked mostly on highway and
building construction and inspection,

[32]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LOUIS BACHRACH

ae

&
a
3
4
4
“y
i
:

 

HOME apprEss: 17 Meadowbrook Rd., Brunswick, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 16 Union St., Brunswick, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Maynard High School, Maynard, Mass.

‘YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; M.D. (Long Island Coll. of
Medicine), 1943.

Marriep: Anne Bingham Jameson, Sept. 4, 1943. CHILDREN: Elinor Bingham,
Aug. 2, 1944; Peter Daniel, Nov. 11, 1947; George Jameson, Dec. 20, 1948,
David Arthur, Nov. 5, 1952.

occuPATION: Physician.

I AM still doing general practice in Brunswick, Maine. My daughter
is graduating from Pembroke College this June. I have two sons
who are in high school. Neither has made up his mind as to where
he wants to go to college. This problem does not faze my youngest
son who is in the seventh grade, and claims that he would like to go
to Harvard.

[33]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

RICHARD SALMON BAGNALL

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 616 Bloomfield Ave., Bloomfield, Conn.

preparep aT: Groveland High School, Groveland, Mass.,; Riverside Military
Academy, Gainesville, Ga.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.D., 1943.
marrieD: Barbara Felletter, Jan. 13, 1945. CHILDREN: Robert, March 12, 1948;

James, Sept. 30, 1951; Anne, Jan. 27, 1955; Steven, Oct. 8, 1957, Barbara,
Nov. 25, 1958.

occupation: Physician (internal and industrial medicine); medical director,
Kaman Aircraft Corporation, Bloomfield; director of health, Town of

Bloomfield; school physician, Bloomfield Public Schools, St. Thomas
Seminary, Bloomfield.

OFFICES HELD: Clinical assistant staff, Hartford Hospital, courtesy staff, St.
Francis Hospital, Mt. Sinai Hospital, all Hartford, Conn.
MEMBER OF: Hartford Medical Society; Hartford County Medical Society;

Connecticut State Medical Society, American Medical Association; In-
dustrial Medical Association.

INTERNED at Hartford Hospital, 1944. Medical officer, Army of
the United States, 1944-47; discharged with rank of captain. At-
tended Yale School of Military Government, Far East Course, 1945.
With U.S. Army Military Government in Korea, 1945-47; on this
assignment I did public health work, working with a Korean oppo-
site as Chief of Preventive Medicine for the government in South
Korea. This was a most interesting and challenging job primarily
controlling smallpox, typhus, cholera, leprosy and tuberculosis.
Residency in internal medicine at Hartford Hospital, 1947-49. In
1949 started practice in internal medicine in Bloomfield (on the
outskirts of Hartford). Since then have gradually taken on more
duties (the jobs and five children noted above) to the point that I
am doing a little bit of everything and not a very good job at any-
thing!

[ 34]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hobbies: Polaroid photography, skiing (water and snow), out-
doors. Things I don’t like to do: Fill out forms like this one.

RICHMOND ISRAEL BAILEN

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 45 Stony Brae Rd., Newton Highlands, Mass.

GEORGE WILLIAM BAILEY, JR.

 

HOME appreEss: 10 Oak Pkwy., Sparta, N.J.

OFFICE AppREss: Emanuel, Deetjen & Co., 10 White Deer Plaza, Sparta, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarriED: Betty J. Kaon, 1938 (divorced 1945); Lorraine Bond, 1945 (divorced
1952); Joyce Ann Curry, Feb, 28, 1958. cumpren: Mark William, Feb. 2,
1959; Eric Winchester, Dec. 28, 1962.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Briggs Bailey, '48, a.m., ’51.

occupation: Registered representative (with stock brokerage firm).

MEMBER OF: Universal League (Rotterdam); Esperanto Association of North
America; British Esperanto Association; Sparta Rotary Club.

[35 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

PERHAPS I have finally settled down after many years of change
in occupation and location. Not long ago I gave up my profession
of airline pilot for a lakeside house, a growing family and a brokerage
office one-half mile away. I had flown some 12,000 hours, traveling
all over the country and the world with a number of independent
airlines. Uncle Sam taught me to fly during the war and I flew
transports for a year over the Hump to China. There was even a
period when I gave illustrated lectures on travel and adventure, as
well as other minor occupations that have faded into the past.

Because of my peripatetic life, ] have never engaged in the

organizational activities of community ming One unusual interest
is my belief in Esperanto, the international | anguage. I have spoken
it since school days — used it in many countries — and am bringing
up my boys to understand it. This with the hope that I can make a
small contribution by starting them off with an international point
of view.

I have seen enough of life and death to be a fatalist, and I cannot
believe that a man can really be Captain of his Ship, etc. My hopes on
a small scale are for the future of my boys; on a larger one, for more
compassion and tolerance throughout the world.

VINCENT RAVI BAILEY

 

HOME aporEss: 391 N. Lake Trail, Palm Beach, Fla.

OFFICE ADpREss: Perry Publications, Inc., 2751 S. Dixie Hwy., West Palm Beach
Fla.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.
Maraiep: Jean B. Bodell, Dec. 6, 1947. cHiLpreN: Anne Chapman, March 5,

1949; Rebecca Sloane, March 4, 1951; Jean Bodell, 2d, Oct. 22, 1952; Hillary
Converse, May 25, 1957.

[ 36]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
HARVARD BROTHERS: Charles Weslcy Bailey, 34; Henry Ravi Bailey, "36; Horace
Converse Bailey, ’38.
OCCUPATION: Vice-president, engincering and administration — Perry Publica-
tions, Inc., publishers of twenty-five Florida newspapers, operators of seven

printing plants, one TV station, a chicken and tobacco farm, and manufac-
turer of “Perry Cubmarines.”

OFFICES HELD: The Gillette Company, 1945-59; U.S. Navy, 1941-45; director,
Providence Investors Company, since 1959, Brook Molding Corporation,
1955-64, Wentworth Institute, 1955-59; trustee, Noble and Greenough
School, 1957-59; former president, Business Associates Club of Boston
Chamber of Commerce; member, Permanent Class Committee, Harvard
1940; chairman, Tenth Reunion; committee member, Friends of Harvard
Rowing.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Palm Beach, The Country Club, Brookline; Wi-
anno Club, Wianno, Mass.; The Bath and Tennis Club, Palm Beach; The
Royal and Ancient Golf Club of St. Andrews, Scotland; Marine Tech-
nological Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Patents in safety razors and in newspaper photo composition.

ON two occasions Harvard has indirectly awakened me rudely to
awareness of the passage of time. The first was when I returned to
the U.S. after being released’ from submarine service in the Pacific
and met a young Harvard man of the Class of zg5o0. It didn’t seem
possible that so much time had gone by.

The second was when I started to pull this report together and
came face to face with the fact that we are now all of twenty-five
years out. It is believable that the days have gone by, but difficult to
realize that it adds up to so many years. Uncle called me in 1941 as
he did so many of us. Fortunately for me he also Jet me go, in 1945.
Some report that I was asleep in my bunk in a submarine when it was
sold to be made into razor blades and thus I found my way to Gillette.

I soon discovered that they paid more to married men than to
bachelors, so over the next dozen years I picked up five beautiful
girls — and the problems and the delights of maturing into family
and community life.

The Twentieth Report said, “At the age of forty, I faced the de-
cision of whether to stay with the company I had been with since the
war and live happily ever after or to make an active search for a
greater challenge. I chose the latter and am delighted with the re-
sults. As vice-president in charge of engineering and development
for Perry Publications, Inc., a greater challenge T have —a new
industry, a new location for me and my five girls.”

The five years that have passed since writing that have borne out
the luck and wisdom of the decision. Not only have the problems of

[37]

ed

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

twenty-five newspapers, seven printing plants, and a tobacco and
chicken farm been interesting but in the same package I’m in on the
design, building and testing of small submarines, with test depths of
goo feet down. Participating in the good and bad decisions of top
management, being permitted the opportunity of creating under
very limited restrictions, being able to enjoy the outdoor life with
a healthy family, often have invited a self-inflicted pinch to see if all is
true.

Looking at the broader picture I am not a bit happy with the steady
march towards socialism, big big government, a weak bewildered
foreign policy, a weakening of the moral fiber in general, and finally
that most intellectuals applaud it. Soon government will take over
gifts to Harvard too.

On November 3rd I wished I could have voted for Ronald Reagan.

SHERMAN NELSON BAKER

 

HOME AppreEss: 6 Chiltern Hill Drive, Worcester, Mass.

OFFicE appress: J. Baker, Inc., 181 Commercial St., Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: David Prouty High School, Spencer, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1940.

MaRRIED: Lois Jeanne Fink, August, 1942. cumpren: Linda Kay, June 10, 1944;
Steven Richard, Dec. 18, 1946; Robert Franklin, Feb. 9, roq9.

occupation: President, J. Baker, Inc., operating retail shoe stores and leased shoe
departments, primarily in self-service department stores.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Worcester Jewish Federation, chairman, Jewish
Welfare Fund Campaign, Worcester; chairman, Planning and Survey Com-
mittee, Worcester Federation; secretary, Temple Emmanuel, member,
board of trustees, Worcester Federation, Temple Emmanuel, Community

Center, Mr. Pleasant Country Club; member, National Board, Joint Dis-

tribution Committee, U.J.A.

[38]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: National Board of Adult Education, U.A.H.C.; Mt. Pleasant Coun-

try Club.

TWENTY-FIVE exciting, rewarding, and satisfactory years pretty

much is a capsule report of my life since graduation. After a couple

of years in my family’s business, along came the war and I signed up

for the Navy Air Corps. Twenty-eight hours of solo convinced

both me and my commanding officer that I would not only be the

Navy’s worst flier but also a dead one before training was com-

pleted, so we cooperatively arranged a transfer to Officers’ Training

School, Noroton, Connecticut. Thirty days later as a brand-new

ensign I was assigned to Commander Service Force Staff, Atlantic.

After three years on this staff, finally as Staff Communication

Officer, and six months in the Pacific as Communications Officer,

Commander Minecraft, I returned to business life.

In the interim I acquired two true prizes, my wife, Lois Jeanne,
and my daughter, Linda Kay. We settled in Worcester, Massa-
chusetts, and commenced building a business, a family, Steve and
Bob, and a place for ourselves in the community. Strangely, I believe
building the business was the least time-consuming. I began opening
shoe departments in self-service department stores, a new and exciting
part of the American mass merchandising development. Between
adding links to the chain and keeping up with the amazing problems
of a girl and two boys, I found myself wallowing around in a pleasant
rut until my bride casually but rather sarcastically asked me one day
when I was going to do something for the community and not just
for my own family. That was about ten years ago. As a result of
_ that mild question, I now find no time for business, no time for my
family, and my golf handicap has gone from six to twelve. A year
and a half was spent conducting a survey for and then raising money
for anew community center; chairmanship of our Jewish Federation
Drive follbwed along with Temple activities, Boards (local and
national), Community Chest, etc. I must admit, however, that this
has been tremendously gratifying, and I look forward to more and

more of the same.

The family kept pace with all of the other activities. Linda is going
into her senior year at Cornell, a real bright and pretty one with
some fine serious thoughts for her future. Steve is heading for
college (we hope) and will be changing his major from girls and fun
to books, girls and fun, and Bob seems to combine the two other
children’s interests. It is easy for our friends to determine where the
children get their interests, for their mother has them all in varying

[39]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

degrees; an amazing capacity for doing for others, supervising an
efficient household, “and having her bag packed, ready to leave with
me for any reason. If she sounds like quite a gal it’s only because it’s
true.

If I were to pinpoint one particular responsibility that we, as in-
dividuals, have today, it would be that of proper leadership of our
younger generation, leadership by direction and by example. The in-
difference and permissiveness that is typical of too many of us is in
my mind the basic cause of the confusion which underlies the actions
of many youngsters of fine families who find themselves in explosive
situations beyond their ability to control. The “go play in the traffic”
attitude of many toward their own children and toward the younger
generation in general can only continue to make the period of ad-
justment too difficult for all except the unusually mature. The old-
fashioned concept of the strong family unit is more important now
than ever before, and we had better do something to re-create it

before it is too late.

JEROME HENRY BAKST

 

HOME appress: 100 Park Ave., Verona, N.J.
OFFICE apprEss: Anti-Defamation League, 315 Lexington Ave. New York 16,
NY.
PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, Riverdale, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B, €477 laude, 1940.
margieD: Barbara Joan Mackey, Nov. 30, 1952. cHILoREN: Lawrence Elliott,
May §, 1956; Ellen Elizabeth, July 9, 1958.
occupation: Director of research and evaluation, non-profit community rela-
tions agency.
oFFices HELD: Vice-president, Civic Democratic Club of Verona, N.J., 1963-64.
pusLications: “Africa’s Angry Young Man,” Coronet Magazine, February, 1960.

[ 40 ]

ree Mant we MN ns aE es ea OE ge 4 lll ll Mi ial bk

ee Ey tnd, Bee ie er Alan ont

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IT is a little astonishing to be reviewing the twenty-five years that
have passed since graduation. I must be getting a bit older, but I don’t
really feel it one bit. I have gained much experience, a small measure
of wisdom, much more understanding of human beings, and a deep
conviction that our country’s future and that of the Free World can
only be safeguarded by placing the public interest ahead of private
interest and by a willingness on the part of Americans to bear the
burden of the “long twilight struggle, year in and year out” of which
John F. Kennedy spoke so eloquently in his Inaugural Address — the
finest declaration of faith for our time that I have seen. Effort — by
all of us —and pursuit of excellence are the categorical imperatives
of this age, especially in our domestic public business and our foreign
affairs.

In the twenty-five years since graduation I have served briefly in
the import-export business; for six years as a newspaper reporter and
editor; for five years as a news writer and editor for the U.S. Govern-
ment’s Voice of America; and for the last decade as an executive for
the Anti-Defamation League of B’nai B'rith, a national human and
community relations agency which concerns itself with civil rights,
democratic values, and the promotion of better inter-faith and inter-
group relations. As director of research and evaluation, I recently
supervised the research which formed the basis for a current book
written by officers of the Anti-Defamation League and published by
Random House called Danger on the Right — a study of the Radical
Right in the United States today.

I continue to hold the interest in government and public affairs
which Harvard helped so much to nourish and am active in local
community and political affairs in Verona, New Jersey, where I live.
In 1961 I was an unsuccessful Democratic candidate for the local
Council. I write a weekly column for a local newspaper which I
find satisfying and which I hope contributes something to public
understanding. I am also a member of the executive board of the
local PTA.

I think it is much more difficult to be an understanding husband
and father than it is to do one’s daily job at the office conscientiously
and well. The complexities of human relationships, especially at the
family level, are far more challenging than one’s business and pro-
fessional life; and I find that my performance as a husband and father
gives me far more cause for worry and concern than do my job
responsibilities. I expect to be working at being a good husband and
father to my growing children for many more years, hopefully blend-

C4t]

—_ |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ing this area of my life in proper proportion with work and with a
continuing interest in public affairs in the nation and in the local
community. But achieving the proper “mix” is the big problem —
and the big challenge.

My w ife, who is ‘also a former newspaper reporter, shares my in-
terests in local educational and community affairs, and she has been a
leader in our local PTA.

We are liberal Democrats in our politics and believe in the pos-
sibility, however difficult, of maintaining peace without surrender
while broadening the area, gradually, of freedom i in the world. We
believed with President Kennedy, whose loss we felt very deeply,
that it is possible also to do better at home, and we are gratified by
President Johnson’s program to carry forward John Kennedy’s
vision of a New Frontier. We are concerned by the apparent growth
of Radical and Far Rightist movements which seem to threaten the
decent respect for the opinions of others without which democratic
government in a Republic cannot thrive — or survive.

We want our children, now eight and six, to grow up in an
America that will see every citizen and human being, regardless of
creed, national origin, or color, enjoying equal rights and in which
opportunity is balanced by individual responsibility for the public

ood.

Meanwhile, we battle to pay the mortgage on our home, to pro-
vide our youngsters with good health and education, to meet our
bills, to provide adequate chauffeuring service for the kids to dancing
classes, YMCA swim classes, and Cub Scout den meetings. And at
the same time, we try to make our contribution to the schools and
to community public affairs. Harvard has given me a priceless in-
tellectual basis for life; she could not have given me more, for wisdom
and experience and understanding only come from living, and living
is a lifetime job.

[42]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEON WHITNEY BALDWIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2734 Josie Ave., Long Beach, Calif. go815.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State of California Dept. of Motor Vehicles, 303 E. Palmer Ave.,
Compton, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarrigD: Lois Sybil Franks, Dec. 19, 1942. CHILDREN: Philip Frank, Dec. 8, 1944;
Stephen Anthony, March 7, 1948.

OCCUPATION: State government service; assistant division chief, Department of
Motor Vehicles, Division of Field Office Operation.

BETWEEN graduation and entry into the military service in Sep-
tember, 1941, I had a short career in transportation at the head-
quarters of the Chicago, Burlington & Quincy Railroad Company
in Chicago. After a period of flight training in the Navy as a seaman,
second class and aviation cadet, I accepted a commission in the
Marine Corps Reserve and served as a pilot until released to inactive
duty in 1946.

Wartime service acquainted me with the comforts of living in
Southern California and I found the temptation to try for new
employment there stronger than any inclination to return to a secure
post with the railroad in Chicago. After a short flier in retail
merchandising and store management with a drug firm, I settled on
state government service in early 1948. Since that time I have worked
in a succession of assignments for the Department of Motor Vehicles,
a major state agency with functions in the area of driver licensing
and vehicle registration. I serve as the principal staff assistant to
one of four division administrators. Have responsibilities related to
headquarters administration, planning, budgeting, staffing and con-
trol of the Department’s 146 field offices, Thanks to the fabulous

[43 ]

I

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

growth in the driving population here, these assignments have been
progressively more interesting and responsible.

Working as a “bureaucrat” in the State capital has given me a
seasoned and realistic view of politics. Though a registered Re-
publican, I find much in the Party with which to be dissatisfied and
commonly vote “independent,” rather than lend support to nomi-
nees of the right wing. (But this view is not uncommon in Cali-
fornia, where the straight-ticket type of voter is less numerous than
along the eastern seaboard.)

On the family side, I have one son well along with a program in
architecture at the University of Southern California and another
halfway through high school and likely to be a candidate in business
administration at one of the California State Colleges. Then, lastly
(but only for emphasis), I hasten to mention the real brains and
driving force among us, Lois, my good wife for some twenty-two
years.

My principal avocation has been an affiliation with the Marine
Corps Reserve. Activity with volunteer units and occasional periods
of active duty for training have insured a fair level of military pro-
ficiency and a couple of promotions since World War II, but the
time span is getting a little long and an invitation to join the ranks
of the retired may soon be forthcoming.

JOSEPH NORMAN BALL

Sir Sinan deere ta th

  

HOME abprEss: 110 Woodland Drive, Fast Aurora, N.Y, 14052.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Cornell Acronautical Laburatory, Buffalo, N.Y. tq22t.

prepared AT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.8., sumria cum laude, 1940; §.M., 1941.

[44]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrigeD: Margaret Elizabeth Young, May 14, 1949. CHILDREN: Frances Andrea,
Aug. 11, 1951; Deborah Lynn, June 1, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Appleton Ball, 42, prp., ’51.

OCCUPATION: Aeronautical Research; assistant head of flight research depart-
ment; direction of research projects on aircrafe flight characteristics and
flight control.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics; Institute of
Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Society of the Sigma Xi.

MY studies of aeronautical engineering led me directly into the air-
craft business. I was with Chance Vought Aircraft through the war
and with them still in 1948 when the entire company was trans-
planted from Connecticut to Texas. I took the precaution before
leaving of asking a fine young woman to be my wife. Finding and
exploring the contrasts between New England and the Southwest
proved to be exhilarating for both of us. I became involved in guided
missile development, and this led to several expeditions to California
for flight test operations. I learned at first hand that being associated
with the first flight of a flying machine 1s a real thrill. From Cali-
fornia we came home to Dallas and then were soon off on an assign-
ment in Boston, by now with two young daughters.

Being back in the Northeast seemed at once natural and comfort-
able, and I found myself thoroughly vulnerable when the opportu-
nity arose for me to move into the aeronautical research laboratory of
Cornell University. Now for a chance to think things through in a
contemplative atmosphere! Small matter that the latter thought
proved illusory. I soon learned that the scramble for government
sponsorshop of research and development projects is lively, to say the
least. It was good though to be back with airplanes and pilots. If
there is one question that I have worked on for the past ten years, it
is this: How in the world does a human pilot manage to fly an air-
plane?

Moving about the country helped to exercise and broaden my
political notions. The change from being a conservative Republican
in New England to a conservative Democrat in Texas proved not to
be hard. Then the change from Democrat in Texas to Democrat in
New York State didn’t seem hard either. I must admit that I haven't
made much progress toward converting our thoroughly Republican
suburban town. We find it a pleasant town though, with, thank
goodness, first-rate schools.

Looking back twenty-five years, I recall that 1 was advised to pick
professors rather than courses. I supposed this was good advice,
except that it seemed not applicable to a technically oriented cur-

[ 45 ]

_____|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

riculum. Now I see that my view was wrong. Clearly the important
thing about Harvard for me was the people — classmates, faculty,
coaches, teammates, directors, advisers, lecturers, house masters.
Harvard's task, I think, is to spread and multiply the influence of
first-rate people. This is the sort of thing the world needs, and then

I think, with Thornton Wilder, that we shall get through by “the
skin of our teeth,”

JOHN FARLOW BALLARD

 

HOME ApprEsS: Ponus Lane, Norwalk, Conn.

OFFICE ApRESS: Royal McBee Corp., 850 Third Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Huntington School for Boys, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; M.B.A., 1942.
marrién: Isabel Alldritt Hubbard, Radcliffe ’42, Nov. 24, 1942. CHILDREN: Leslie

Veronica, Sept. 14, 1945; Jay Farlow, July 1, 1947; Geoffrey Alldritt, Aug.
2, 1950,

occupation: Director of international operations, Royal McBee Corporation

(office equipment); president, Royal McBee International, Inc., Geneva,
Switzerland.

MEMBER OF: Society for the Advancement of Management; American Man-
agement Association; Business Equipment Manufacturers Association (In-
ternational Operations Council), Cedar Point Yacht Club, Westport, Conn.

AFTER the Business School and the war years which I spent in the
Air Force, we settled down in the Boston orbit where we remained
happily raising our family until our European adventure commenced
in 1956. The five years following were fascinating years of work-
ing and living in Germany, Holland and Switzerland and traveling

throughout Western Europe. Happily, fate coincided with our wish
to re-Americanize the children and we returned three years ago to

take up life in New England where we left off. Leslie, our daughter,
[ 46 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

is enthusiastic about Sarah Lawrence which she entered last year and
our boys, Jay and Geoffrey, both aspire to Harvard, Jay in the
entering Class of 1965, our Reunion year.

LEE ALFRED BANASH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 125 Park St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: David Banash & Son, Inc., 68 Chauncy St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., cu7m laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Idalia Carolyn Mock, Sept. 10, 1947. cuiLp: David Mock, April 12,

1950.
OCCUPATION: President, David Banash & Son, Inc., manufacturer — women’s

fashion accessories.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, American Jewish Committee,
Temple Israel Brotherhood. oe

MEMBER OF: Shawmut Lodge — Masonic Order; Belmont Country Club,

IT is unsettling to be told to get this report in to Peter Pratt before
he has to send another reminder — but one procrastinates because it
is hard to sum up twenty-five years, and even harder to find ac-
complishments that would meet the high critical standards we had in
1940.

First, the war modified those standards. Four years in the Army,
including two campaigns in the Pacific, was a kind of postgraduate
course. I remember one episode in Leyte, in which the local boot-
legger turned out to be a poet who had written patriotic and re-
flective verse about the Japanese occupation. I think that I re-
member his coconut nectar better than his poetry!

Then, back to Boston to join my family business which I now
operate. Of course, the first challenge was to make a living. Henrv

[ 47 ]

PTT | ~ ee ee ee

ed

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

Thoreau objected once that we devote our lives to “Getting and
Spending,” but a lot of fun is in the challenge.

We have an active and happy family life. Perhaps our greatest
fun together is when we are in our cottage at Cape Cod, where we
can swim and sail and relax, and leave the cares and tensions of the
city behind. However, I must confess that some of my happiest
moments have been spent hitting that insignificant little old ball on

the golf course. 1 have now reached the age when I leave the skiing
bit to my ninth-grader, David!

NATHAN FISKE BANFIELD, III

 

HOME AbpRESS: 2157 Mott-Smith Drive, Honolulu, Hawaii.

OFFICE aDpREss: First National Bank of Hawaii, P.O. Box 3200, Honolulu, Ha-
wali,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. cunt laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Alice Louise Judd, Sept. 19, 1942 (divorced 1953). CHILDREN: Nathan
Fiske, qth, Aug. 11, 1943 (died Aug. 24, 1955); Louise Marshall, May 7,
1945; Michael Judd, Dec. 30, 1949.

occuPATION: Executive vice-president and director, First National Bank of
Hawaii.

orFices HELD: Colonel, AIS, US. Army Reserve; trustee, Tax Foundation of
Hawaii, since 1957, Queen’s Hospital, Honolulu, since 1960; president,
Harvard Club of Hawaii, 1961-62; trustee and treasurer, Central Union
Church, since 1961; director, Honolulu Symphony Society, Hawaii Chap-

ter, Navy League of the US,, Rotary Club of Honolulu; president, Pacific
Club of Honolulu.

[48]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES MUNGER BANGHART

 

HOME ADpRESS: 67 Kings Grant Rd., Weston, Mass. 02193.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Banghart, Egan Associates, P.O. Box 335, Weston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Ruth Helen Rosholt, Dec. 27, 1941, Louisville, Ky. crmpren: Kim,
July 13, 1946; James Munger, Jr., Aug. 21, 1947; Susan Rosholt, Dec. 7,

19§2.
occupation: Manufacturers’ representative, food service equipment; partner in

firm.
OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Weston Congregational Church.
MEMBER OF: Manufacturers’ Agents Association; Food Service Industry.
PUBLICATIONS: Articles on insurance and selling in various trade and profes-
sional journals.

MY clearest memory of 1940 is leaving the Yard after Commence-
ment fully convinced that we could avoid the World conflict by not
talking about it. Four months later I enlisted in the full conviction
that war was imminent and we must prepare. How that ivory tower
collapsed in the face of reality and it has been doing that ever since.

As we reach this twenty-fifth milestone, I sit firmly among those
who are deeply disturbed at the steady erosion of the dignity and
the importance of the individual; at the rising power of those who
profess to know better what is good for our ‘individual citizen than
that citizen himself knows; at the ever-growing dependence of our
citizenry upon the largess of the Great White Father. It strikes me
that too many wring their hands and cry “Help me!” when the
individual’s courage, determination, desire and real effort offer the
real solution.

Like many, I suppose, my career has had its zigs and zags. A year
in meteorology at the University of Chicago gave me an Air Force

[ 49 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

commission and a lovely new wife. Four years later I was an ex-
lieutenant colonel investigating the future of a commercial weather
forecasting business. Deciding that competing with a free service
could not ‘be very profitable, I turned to life insurance and the lure
of the west and spent seven fruitful and rew arding years with the
New England Mutual Life in San Francisco. While there I acquired
a love for the Bay Area, a mortgage, three wonderful native Cali-
fornians and a desire to be a sales manager. As a result I accepted the
post of agency manager for New England in St. Paul and we spent
five happy years there. While there I acquired a love for the Land
of 1000 Lakes, a larger mortgage, a family of sports enthusiasts and
a desire not to be a sales manager.

In 1958, my father came up ‘with an offer that couldn’ t be refused
and we returned to New England where I joined him as a manu-
facturers’ representative dealing in heavy duty food service equip-
ment. Since his death in 1960, I’ve operated the business myself
together with some needed assistants. While not quite what I en-
visioned in 1940, I find the work gives me the largest degree of
personal independence of any with which | am acquainted while at
the same time providing stimulus and a reasonably generous return.

We are happily encamped in Weston with our oldest now off to
college, our most satisfying son unfortunately headed for the Big
Green and our younger girl remaining the light of our lives. All in
all we've acquired a love for New England, a larger mortgage, a
grand circle of friends, a modicum of business success and a desire to
live happily ever after.

ARCHIBALD TANNER BANNING, III

 

HOME ApprEss: 924 Valleyview Rd., Pittsburgh 16, Pa,

[50]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE apprEss: Tanner Banning & Co., Inc., 3 Parkway Center, Pittsburgh 20,
Pa.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., 1940; 8.B. (Carnegie Inst. of Tech-
nology).

MARRIED: Virginia O’Neil, Jan. 29, 1945. CHILDREN: William Tanner, June 16,
1946, Sarah Ann, Jan. 11, 1948, Michael O’Neil, Jan. 14, 1952; Mark, May
29, 1959. |

occuPATION: Manufacturers’ representative; president, Tanner Banning &
Company, Inc.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining Engineers, Association of Iron and
Stee] Engineers; Tau Beta Pi; Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh.

AFTER four years in the Navy, mostly on a DE in the Atlantic,
I joined U.S. Steel in 1946 as an engineer in the general offices and
served in various engineering capacities with U.S. Steel until 1958.
I then joined Dravo Corporation as a development engineer, a
position I held until 1962, when I resigned to form my own business,
primarily serving the iron and steel industries.

My eldest son was co-captain of the Tabor Academy football
team this fall. My daughter headed the Christian Association at
Shipley School, as well as being an excellent student. The two
younger boys are in local schools.

I have a lot of good intentions of doing more for church and
community than I have done in the past.

CLARENCE HOWARD BARBER

ROTTS rs rere oe ahr ay
= a . 5 i

 
  

HLM LN ER Set lP pet

[ OSIM Poets pte

 

HOME AppreEss: 90 Vernon St, Hartford, Conn.
OFFICE AppREsS: Trinity College, Hartford, Conn,
PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass,

[st]

_—d

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, magna cum laude, 1940; AM 1942

. ‘ : M., :

PHD., 1955; DIB. (Ecole Normale de Musique, Paris), 1953. ,
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Laurence Luther Barber, Jr, '37, A.M., "40, PH.D., 41.
OCCUPATION: Associate professor of music.

orrices HELD: Secretary, Mozart Festival Orchestra, membership chairman, Col-
lege Music Society.

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors; American Musi-
cological Society; Société Francaise de Musicologie, College Music Society.
pupLicaTions: “Les Oratorios de Marc-Antoine Charpentier,” Recherches,

Paris, 1963; recordings for the Haydn Soctety and Vox Records; numerous
magazine articles and program notes.

I APPROACHED the task of taking inventory after twenty-five
years out of Harvard with some trepidation, but once starting to
write, I find it a most pleasant assignment after all. Shortly after
freshman year in college I was fortunate enough to decide on my
vocation — the field of music — and I have never regretted it. With
the exception of the period of U.S. Army service during World War
II, almost every day of my professional career has brought to mind
ideas I gained at Harvard and its teaching. Therefore, the best I can
do in this report is to say “thanks” to Harvard for everything it
has given me professionally and otherwise and to mention the
pleasure and stimulation I continue to enjoy from my frequent
contacts with the University.

My career has not been adventurous or spectacular. The U.S.
Army called me shortly after I finished my A.M. in music at
Harvard. I spent four years in the service, mainly in administrative
and recreational work. Prime benefits: a newly acquired respect for
the man-in-the-street and a chance to discover Europe. Upon dis-
charge from the Army I spent three years teaching at Fisk Uni-
versity where the Music Department is a cousin to Harvard’s. This
proved a most rewarding and valuable experience. I returned to
Harvard to get a Ph.D. and interrupted this with one year in France
on a Fulbright grant, where I buried myself in the music of Marc-
Antoine Charpentier and participated in two recordings. Since
1953 1 have been teaching at Trinity College, Hartford, where I am
now an associate professor. | am at a college which I think has real
promise for the future, and I am surrounded by a fine faculty (a
number of whom are Harvard men) and eager and receptive stu-
dents.

Summers have been free to study at Tanglewood, the Juilliard

[52]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

School of Music and for numerous trips to Europe and the Near
East for study and the pursuit of my favorite hobby: travel.

I have no family news to convey being still unmarried. I doube
that any woman would enjoy the crazy and distracted life my job
plunges me into each season at an animated men’s college. My
family is really the fifty young men of our college Glee Club with
whom I have visited twenty-five states and Canada.

My social, political and religious convictions are conservative, and
by contact with Trinity I am increasingly attracted by Episco-
palianism. I have no particular axe to grind except to note with
some alarm that college education in the United States has become
a big business and a mass production since World War II. One
rarely finds today the chance to pursue the type of gentleman's
education we enjoyed in the late thirties. Unhurried contact with
dedicated teachers like A. T. Davison, “Woody” Woodworth and A.
Tillman Merritt will be among my treasured memories. Harvard
must change and will change to keep its place in education today,
but I hope that in many areas it can balance progress with tradition
as our Classmate, Elliot Forbes, is so ably proving as present director
of the Glee Club. Exciting as the new developments at Harvard are,
I hope that the University can retain some of the atmosphere which
we of the Class of 1940 were so fortunate to enjoy as undergraduates.

JONATHAN ARNOLD BARKER

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 25440 Crescent Lane, Los Altos Hills, Calif. 94023.

[53]

rr . ne

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JAMES MILLER BARNETT

  

HOME ADDRESS: 527 Pine Ave., Albany, Ga.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Culpepper Co., Box 1622, Albany, Ga.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1938, 1939-1941. DEGREE: A.B., 1940(41).

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Contracting — building and development; vice-president, Cul-
pepper Company; director Jonesboro Development Corporation.

IFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, Joint City-County Planning Commission,

AFTER graduation from Harvard I completed a year of graduate
vork at ALLT., in the field of city and regional planning, before
mtering the armed forces. Served three years in the Army with
arious Intelligence assignments, the last of which was on General
Aatthew Ridgway’s staff in the XVIIf Airborne Corps in the
curopean theatre. As a civilian I served in the U.S. Office of Mili-
ary Government for Germany as staff secretary and later executive
ficer, in General Lucius Clay’s offices.

Since retirement from government work several years ago I have
eveloped properties, raised cattle and been engaged in general con-
acting with emphasis on commercial, institutional and industrial
uilding in Georgia, Florida and Alabama. Other activities center
-ound regional and local planning for the area and community,
vusic and church.

[54]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANCIS GOODELL BARNUM, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 120 Codman Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1776 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 19403 M.D., 1944.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Lamb, Sept. 1, 1951. CHILDREN: William Goodell, Jan. 27,
1959; Elizabeth Goodell, Aug. 18, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Physician,

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Chestnut Hill (Mass.) School, since 1962; chairman,
Section of Internal Medicine, Massachusetts Medical Society, 1957-58;
internist-in-chief, New York Central System, Boston, since 1952; physician,
Electronics Corporation of America, Cambridge, Mass., since 1954; mem-
ber, active medical staff, Massachusetts General Hospital and New Eng-
land Deaconess Hospital, Boston; member, consulting medical staff, Brooks
Hospital, Brookline, Hahnemann Hospital, Brighton, Mass.; member, Fund
Committee, Harvard Medical School Class of 1944, 1956-59.

MEMBER OF: [The Country Club, Brookline; American Board of Internal Medi-
cine; American College of Physicians; American Medical Association;
various medical societies.

WALKING up to the firing line of the Twenty-fifth Report, I
loaded the revolver with the four rounds of career history, family,
hobbies, and convictions, expecting the shots to be w idely scattered
over the target and surrounding terrain. After taking careful aim I
was pleasantly surprised to find that the score was higher than an-
ticipated.

CAREER HISTORY: On entering Harvard Medical School in the
fall of 1940, my most immediate acquaintance was with a gentleman
(deceased) whom I came to know intimately from the outside in.
Other memories from medical school include w riting a first-year
thesis on “Physiologic Differences Between the Human Male and
Female” (still used as reference by author); developing a duodenal

[55]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ulcer, losing a few pints of blood and a year of medical school; and

setting a record for continuous sweating and palpitation before the

oral internship examinations at the Massachusetts General Hospital,

Interning at the above hospital was an idcal life, concerned only
with the care of the sick; there were no worries about office rent,
home mortgages and repairs, schools for children, taxes, etc.

After completing five years of post-medical schoo] training, includ-
ing a year in Cleveland and a year at Boston’s Lahey Clinic, I
opened an office for the private practice of internal medicine at the
present stand just fifteen years ago. At the same time I started as
associate to Dr. F. Dennette Adams at the Massachusetts General
Hospital; the apprenticeship system is still the best way of learning
the art of medicine.

Because of association with Dr. Adams and my physician father,
there were no long hours of sitting in the office waiting for patients,
my career began with a rapid blast-off from my professional launch-
ing pad and has been rocketing along from that time with the same
sixty-to-seventy-hour work week. Operative removal of the ulcer
shortly after starting in practice showed me what life was like in the
bed instead of at the bedside and has been an incalculable boon in the
years since.

As to type of work, it has been primarily that of family doctor,
trying to unravel the medical as well as emotional problems of the
forgotten grandfather, the overtired housewife, and the insecure
teen-ager. Ninety-nine percent of my hospital work is at the Massa-
chusetts General Hospital. This is an unusual type of loosely knit
group practice in which there is full cooperation of all the doctors
in the care of patients with a free exchange of opinion and informal
consultation.

FAMILY LIFE: Met Lido just after starting in practice and pre-
vailed on her not to follow through with her plans to finish North-
western. She now has to manage one husband, one dog, two children,
and three houses. How she is able to drive this multiple-horsed
wagon with such equanimity is truly amazing. Equally astounding
is our ability to arrive at the same conclusion to a problem; the
reasons for arriving at this conclusion are always as far apart as the
antipodes.

TRAVEL AND HOBBIES: The former has been related to the latter to
a degree. I became interested in human physiology under hyperbaric
conditions several years ago and have become an enthusiastic skin-
diver. The free-floating freedom of being able to move in any direc-

[ 56]

 

F
F
}

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion in bizarre and lovely surroundings frees one completely from the
world of mere air-breathers. Lido and I have been to Bermuda,
Nassau, Key Biscayne, and Puerto Rico in search of the elusive angel
fish — and in pursuit of other pleasures.
Another hobby, that of competitive pistol shooting, has carried us
overland. In 1961, in one memorable emigration, we drove, com-
plete with children and baby-sitter, to Quebec City. Here, at the
base of a beautiful ski slope, I won the championship i in my class in
.22 and .q5 caliber. In our free time we explored the rolling ‘Canadian
countryside and had some of the most delectable French food ever.
convictions: After an exercise like the above, in which one
tries to summarize a third (hopefully) of a life, the tendency to
philosophize is overpowering. Happiness is considered to be the
great good; what are its ingredients? These are always highly per-
sonal, but I can give as a summary to this report the reasons for the
happiness of my own existence. These are, firstly, the choice of a
way of life that suits me as a frame for my work, secondly, the con-
viction that stress is healthy; thirdly, the capacity to disregard
criticism once a course of action has been decided; fourthly, a rest-
less desire to keep on the move which is hard to define; and finally,
and most important, having the supreme blind good luck to marry the
right girl.

RICHARD BARRETT

 

HOME apprEss; 316 FE, 55th St., New York, NY.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1936-1940, DEGREE! §.B, 1940,

TWENTY-FIVE years ago, instead of appearing for graduation, I
[57]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

was hospitalized for bone surgery. Soon after this rest came the draft
but being unable to walk I was deferred. Later, | applied for a com-
mission in the Naval Reserve but there was no mobilization. billet
available for one of my qualifications, which I think was just as well,
In June of 1942, I found myself sailing for Egypt as a volunteer
ambulance driver in the American Field Service.

Like everyone else’s military career, this was a tremendous ex-
perience, There wasn’t much time to get used to desert conditions,
navigating by compass and driving without lights before the cam-
paign began in October under General Montgomery. Our small
units, attached to various divisions, were constantly on the move
between the front line and rear hospitals and daily life consisted of
danger and boredom. The following winter in Italy was famous for
bad weather and the slow Allied advance; spring of ’44 saw the in-
vasion and I was at home on leave that summer. There were notices
by well-known war reporters that it would soon be over: this proved
to be not entirely accurate and November saw me again in Italy. In
the spring of ’45, our units moved north through France and on the
coast of Holland we welcomed V-E day. With an expiring con-
tract, I came home again and suddenly the Atomic Age began.

Thad decided during the war that living in the country was not for
me and shortly after V-J day I came to New York where I have
been ever since. Between October, 1945, and January, 1947, I had
various jobs in various stores but my goal was the antique jewelry
field. Having collected and studied books on this subject for many
years, I knew a good deal about the pieces in a small shop that
specialized in this; here 1 spent two years as general shop assistant
and attended the Mechanics’ and Tradesmen’s Institute for two
winter semesters in jewelry designing courses.

For the past fifteen years, I have been with a wholesale manu-
facturer of costume jewelry that very recently went out of business.
I was intensely busy the year round with designs, production and
special orders. As with all trades allied to the garment industry, it
was annually a question of Christmas in June and June in January to
produce a line of merchandise for buyers to view and order. Now
I am free to concentrate efforts in other directions.

I am still single, an Episcopalian and a Republican. This last
category has recently become more complex than before and the
coming elections should be most interesting. So much for the last

twenty-five years; let's hope the next quarter century will be more
peaceful.

[58]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD FRANK BARRONIAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 928 Fernside Drive, Tacoma, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1102 S. I St., Tacoma, Wash.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; S.M. (Univ. of Chicago),
1941; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1950.

MARRIED: Emily Jane Batt, June 21, 1952. CHILDREN: Barbara, Oct. 9, 1953;
Richard, Jan. 9, 1955; Dianne, Nov. 7, 1956; Alan, Feb. 19, 1938; Leslie,
Aug. 27, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Doctor of medicine.

OFFICES HELD: President, Local Internists’ Society.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Pierce County Medical Society.

FOLLOWING graduation a year was spent at the University of
Chicago in the Department of Bacteriology. With the declaration
of war I entered the Army. Four and a ‘half years as a forward
observer in the Armored Artillery embraced a conducted tour
through Africa and Western Europe. Picking up the interrupted
path, I returned to medical school (Tufts), internship and a resi-
dency in internal medicine.

Seeking a small city to establish my practice in, I settled in
‘Tacoma, Washington, with my wife and first-born. Ten years of
efforts in various directions resulted in a demanding practice and an
active, enjoyable brood of five.

The little tune I have beyond work, I utilize in the amateur study
of the piano and all too meager reading.

My politics are, if definable, in the independent and liberal cate-
gory. My religious convictions are non-denominational, non-institu-
tional, of basic Christian doctrine, My travels, alas, have not ma-
terialized in reality but are of the hoped-for variety.

[59]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.4.0

ROBERT S. BART

 

MAILING ADDRESS: St. John’s College, Annapolis, Md.

PAUL RICHARD BARTLETT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3628 Van Ness Blyvd., Fresno, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Fresno High School, Fresno, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937~1940. DEGREE: $.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Mary Elizabeth Johnson, June 18, 1939. cHILpREN: Peter Richard,
July 18, 1942, Rebecca Ann, April 28, 1944.

occupation: Retired; former owner-operator of radio and television stations.

OFFICES HELD: Organizer, secretary and president, California State Broadcasters
Association, 1949-54 approx.; member, board of directors, Fresno Chamber
of Commerce, 1950-52; president, Fresno Convention Bureau, 1949-52;
Fresno Red Cross and various other of the usual civic groups.

MEMBER OF: St. Francis Yacht Club, San Francisco.

pusLications: A few pieces on radio and yachting.

BETWEEN my junior and senior year I was married in New York,
during the summer, and also worked as a page boy at NBC that

[ 60 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

summer. In the fall of 1939 I put in quite a few hours at the newly
born Harvard Station on the steam pipes.

After graduation I worked for NBC in Denver at KOA as an
announcer, then went to California and interested a Fresno business
man named Jess Rodman in establishing a new z50-watt station at
Fresno. This station went on the air January 1, 1942, with me as
manager. In subsequent years we increased the power to 50,000
watts, added FM and TV and I became the majority stockholder.

During the forties I traveled a lot to Washington and New York
on business and also went abroad. I also established Radio Station
KERO in Bakersfield and later sold it to my employees.

During these active years I led the usual hectic life of the business-
man engaged in too many activities and social affairs. By 1959 the
cup was running over and I sold all my interests in KFRE-AM-FM
and TV to the Philadelphia Inquirer and retired forever (1 hope).

Since then my wife and I and our children, when out of school,
have seen much of Europe, the “Med,” West Indies and California
coasts from the deck of the yacht Skywave. We made a memorable
trans-Atlantic crossing in 1963 and hope to return as soon as possible.
Our son Peter is completing his work at the University of California

and our daughter Rebecca is a junior at Wellesley.

I find life at sea remarkably free from government red tape and
other distracting minutiae and hope to keep off land as much as

possible. |

WALTER CECIL BASS

   

HOME appress: 75 Welsh Valley Rd, Valley Forge, Pa.
oFFIcE AppRESS: R, & J. Dick Co., Inc., King of Prussia, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Thomas High School, Cumberland City, Tenn.

[ 61 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.10

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.
wrarriep: Frances Louise Weaks, Sept. 9, 1941. CHILDREN: Walter Cecil, Jr.

Dec. 17, 1942; Frances Lynn, Dec. 17, 1945.
occupation: President, R. & J. Dick Company, Inc.; joint managing director,
R. & J. Dick Company, Ltd. England, mechanical power transmission

manufacturers.

EXCEPTING the World War II years, I have spent the past
twenty-five years in the employ of several companies in the “me-
chanical pow er transmission industry.” This industry has been very
good to the “Bass Family,” for w hich we are all most thankful and

terribly humble.
Selling is my profession. Working chief boss salesman. is my

current responsibility.

Mrs, Bass has given me two fine children —both raised from
babies to adulthood by her because I have spent a very large part
of my life since June, 1940, traveling North and South America,
Great Britain and the countries of Europe i in search of customers.

Frances is “family manager” with headquarters at “Miss Frances,”
our southern colonial house located high atop Valley Forge Moun-
tain (Mountain Misery of 1777 and~ 1778), overlooking George
Washington’s headquarters at Valley Forge. Walter Cecil, Jr., is
with the U.S. Army, from which he will resign in the spring of
1965, to join our company. Frances Lynn is a pre-veterinary student

at Penn State University.

CORTLAND AMIDON BASSETT

  

HOME appreEss: 1 Warwick Rd., Royalston, Mass,
OFFICE apprEss: The L. S. Starrett Co., Athol, Mass,
prepargp at; Athol High School, Athol, Mass.

[ 62 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREE: s.B. (Massachusetts State Coll.), 1941.

marriep: Barbara W. Brownsey, Dec. 22, 1943. CHILDREN: Cortland Paul, May
25, 1945; Alan Brownsey, Jan. 13, 1947; David Mark, May 7, 1953; Melissa
Elaine, Nov. 8, 1957.

OCCUPATION: General sales manager, The L. S. Starrett Company, manufacturers
of precision tools,

OFFICES HELD: President, American Ground Flat Stock Association, 1962-63,
trustee, Royalston Academy; deacon and trustee, First Congregational
Church, Royalston, Mass.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Tool and Manufacturing Engineers, Who's
Who in the East.

PUBLICATIONS: Trade publication articles.

IT is safe to state that the Class of 1940 had many men whom it
could look on with greater pride and admiration than it did the
writer of this evaluation. It is possible that of the 1,000 enrolled in
Harvard University, approximately 999 were entitled to be in this
preferred category. I do have one enviable distinction. That is the
fact that I am probably the only man in the Class of ’4o, and pos-
sibly in the whole 300-plus years of Harvard’s history, who went on
probation after one month and managed to remain in the College for
two years without once relinquishing the rating! In order to elimi-
nate this potential source of insanity, I parted from the institution,
leaving behind the advantages which a Harvard education can bring
to those who are sufficiently prepared or who are endowed with a
superior share of scholastic brilliance. [ also left behind many good
and sincere friends which both then and today seemed vastly more
important.

I transferred to Massachusetts State College (today, the Uni-
versity of Massachusetts). Despite the fact that Harvard, in my
opinion, has more to offer a brilliant student than any single school
in the United States, for me, of average intelligence, this move was a
most fortunate one. I continued my major in chemistry and gradu-
ated with creditable grades. At the same time, as president of my
fraternity, SAF, and active participator in a variety of college social
and athletic activities, [ broadened my general education, substan-
tially. Incidentally, my first-year roommate at Massachusetts State,
John Michael Hayes, who wrote the screen play for “Peyton Place,”
“Butterfield 8” and “The Carpetbaggers,” did much to further
broaden my education!

On graduating, because of an ROTC commission in the Horse
Cavalry (yes, I said “horse”), I was immediately persuasively re-
quested to join the Third U.S, Cavalry for one year as a second

[ 63]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

licutenant at Fort Myer, Virginia, “Showpost of the Nation.” Near]
five years later, after five posts, two maneuvers, two schools and
sixty-eight different “bedding-down” areas in Europe, I acquired
sufficient points to sever my active connections with the Army! My
diversified activity had included many thousands of miles of horse-
back riding, Office-of-the-Guard at The Tomb of The Unknown
Soldier and at The White House, guard on duty on the Washington,
D.C., water system, complete conv ersion to the armored segment of
the Army and, finally, responsibility for physical training, athletics,
entertainment and publi ic relations of the roth Armored Division and
larger redeployment units. Aly rating of major was undoubtedly due
to the fact that each time the Army altered my career with a com-
pletely new type of job, in order to retain my loyalty they rewarded
me with a promotion!

During service at Fort Oglethorpe, Georgia, this “damn Yankee”
married a Tennesseean. She was, and is, just as young, pretty and
shapely as “Daisy Mae.” Our four barefooted offspring are variously
occupied, Cort is a sophomore at the University of Massachusetts,
majoring in business administration — or weight lifting. We are not
sure which! Al is a freshman pre-vet student at the University of
Tennessee. Undoubtedly my stint in the Cavalry, plus his extra-
sensory perception, occasioned this choice! Mark is keeping things
active in the sixth grade, whereas the second grade is keeping “Missy”
active.

In 1946 I jomed the L. S. Starrett Company, manufacturer of
precision tools, as a sales apprentice. During the last eight years I
have served as general sales manager for the same company. This
position has required frequent trips to most all sections of the country
as well as occasional speaking engagements. It has also been in-
strumental in eliminating a substantial portion of my teeth, greying
my hair and blackening my finger nails.

If politics and politicians could be disassociated, I'd have some
political convictions, Since they cannot, I believe that it’s high time
that we pay off and not penalize the man who is interested in doing
two days’ work in one. | for one am sick of encouraging men to do
nothing through so-called “social reforms.” Let each one of us

prosper to the extent that we ourselves foster prosperity. I’m all
for helping the fellow with a legitimate problem. Let’s separate the

legitimate from “the mistletoe,” by drastically curtailing our social-
ization of each separate phase of life.

Finally, our religion and what it stands for means a good deal to us.

[ 64 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It does give us strength and ultimately gives us the opportunity to
strengthen others. Let us hope that during the next twenty-five
years our ability to conform to the precepts of the Golden Rule will
be infallible. Our individual success in this respect will be largely
responsible for the status of our country and our world at our soth
Anniversary!

DAVID DEAN BEAL

 

HOME AppREsS: 5 Copley St., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDREss: Hutchins, Mixter & Parkinson, 60 State St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarrizeD: Eugenie Moore, 1940. CHILDREN: Christopher Williams, 1941 (mm.
Janet Spalding 1964); Hilary, 1943, Margaret, 1951.

HARVARD son: Christopher Williams Beal, ’63.

HARVARD BROTHER: [Thomas Howes Beal, ’46.

OCCUPATION: Investments.

DURING the war I worked in the aircraft industry — first in Nash-
ville with Avco and then on Long Island with Grumman. In 1945
I entered investment banking in New York with Glore, Forgan &
Company and later with Baker, Weeks & Company. In 1956 we left
Bronxville and Wall Street for Winchester and State Street.

My association with Mr. Mixter (12) and his partners has been
most enjoyable and rewarding. With my good friend Bill Taussig
(°43), we have extended our clientele to include a variety of financial
institutions geographically ranging from Amsterdam to Los Angeles.

Eugenie returned to college in recent years, obtaining her A.B.
and A.M. in sociology at Boston University, and is looking for a new
career. Christopher has returned from the University of Hong Kong,

[ 65 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

was married this summer and is studying for his A.M. at Fletcher
Hilary is learning the trade of travel agent and looking forward to

vacations in faraway places. Margaret now plans to be a brain
surgeon,

WILLIAM MERRITT BEANEY, JR.

 

HOME appress: 154 Dodds Lane, Princeton, N.J.

OFFICE appress: Dept. of Politics, Princeton University, Princeton, N.J.

pRePaRED AT: Forty Fort High School, Forty Fort, Pa. .

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1940; LL.B. (Univ. of
Michigan), 1947; PHD. (ibid.), 1951.

MarrigD: Patricia Daniels, June 7, 1947. CHILDREN: Barbara, Jan. 24, 19515
Carol, June 14, 1952,

occupation: Professor of politics and William Nelson Cromwell Professor of
Law, Princeton University.

oFFices HELD: Chairman, Dept. of Politics, Princeton University, 1959-61 (a
rotating office); lieutenant colonel, U.S. Army Reserve.

MEMBER OF: American Civil Liberties Union; American Political Science Asso-
ciation; American Association of University Professors.

pusLicaTions: Rights to Counsel in American Courts, 1955; The Supreme Court

in a Free Society, with A. T. Mason, 1959; American Constitutional Law,
3d ed., with A. T. Mason, 1964; numerous articles and reviews.

AFTER graduation I attended the University of Michigan Law
School for three terms before enlisting in the Infantry in February,
1942. After two unsuccessful tries to enter OCS (underweight, bad
eyes, allergies), my health suddenly improved and I left the happy
life of a non-com for the insecure world of lowly officers. I went
into Normandy as a replacement officer and was wounded on July

25, 1944, while serving as a company commander in the 6oth In-
fantry, Ninth Division.

[ 66 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1946 I returned to law school and began teaching part-time in
the Department of Political Science at the University of Michigan.
Teaching and the study of government seemed far more exciting
than a beckoning law career, so, after obtaining a law degree in June,
1947, and marrying a Michigan Kappa (nee Patricia Daniels) in the
same month, I began a Ph.D. program while continuing part-time
teaching.

By 1949 I had passed my general examination and received an ap-
pointment as instructor at Princeton, where I have remained as a
member of the Department of Politics. I deeply enjoy teaching and
contacts with the fine young men coming to college today. Gradu-
ate teaching is, in many ways, less stimulating, though perhaps more
professional. I enjoy research on occasion, but find writing painful,
as demonstrated in these few paragraphs.

Two daughters, aged twelve and thirteen, a friendly dog and a
silent parakeet help make life extremely pleasant for Pat and me, as
do local sports events and occasional trips to New York plays and
shows. To many it would seem an infinitely dull life, but I find this
vantage point for watching the world’s and the nation’s agonized
progress toward an undefinable future as good as any and far
superior to most. Dare I say it —I find life exciting and rewarding
—the results of the last presidential election particularly satisfying.

WILLIAM CHARLES BECKERT

 

HOME AppbRESS: 21 Gale Rd., Swampscott, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Electric Co., River Works, Lynn, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Atlantic City High School, Atlantic City, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B. 1940(41); LL.B, (Boston Coll.), 1950.

[ 67 ]

eee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940
mareiep: Jean Wiggin, March 27, 1948. cHttpren: Arthur Wiggin, June 8
1951; Ann, June 2, 1953.
cocupation: Chief stress analyst, Marine and Navy steam turbines, General
Electric Company; registered professional engineer, Massachusetts,

orFices HELD: Swampscott Town Meeting Member; treasurer, Church of the
Holy Name, Episcopal.

Memper oF: The Beach Club, Swampscott; Tedesco Country Club, Marble-
head, Mass.; Seaview Country Club, Absecon, N.J.

DO you know anyone who is gullible, dependent, interfering, nosey,
fawning, soft, meek, flip, stingy, foolhardy, fussy, sissy?

Every so often I give my son a lecture generally prefaced by the
words, “Now am going to tell you something that will change your
whole life.” The last lecture was on the subject of how to interpret
remarks people make about us. I said, “There are two words that
can be used to describe each characteristic that we have. One word
is complimentary, said by people who like us. The other word is
derogatory, said by people who don’t like us. You think of some
complimentary word and I will tell you an uncomplimentary word
which means the same thing.”

My boy said, “Oh yeah, how about the Scout Law, which says, ‘A
Scout is trustworthy, loyal, helpful, friendly, courteous, kind,
obedient, cheerful, thrifty, brave, clean and reverent’?”

That ruined the evening, but eventually we came up with the list
at the beginning which describes a Scout we could only hate. In-
cidentally, Arthur is thirteen years old, a Star Scout, junior assistant
Scout Master and already knows his way around Manter Hall (to
get some vocabulary building books).

Jean, who is the mother of half this family, is harder to lecture
because she’s been to Vassar and has recently taken up the game of
golf, left-handed. However, when things are tough, I console her
with the words, “I may not be rich or smart or have much character

or personality, but 1 am sure good looking.” The only disturbing
trend in our marriage is that twice this summer I found myself taking
care of the children while she was out playing golf.

The princess of the family is Ann, our younger, who was born
with red hair and thus takes after an eighteenth-century ancestor of
Jean’s. Ann has two moods — she is either very, very sweet or very,
very mad. Consequently she either doesn’t need a lecture or is im-
possible to lecture.

I suppose the authorities of the College are also impossible to
lecture, but 1 would like to ask a question, “How can they teach boys
to win Nobel prizes and rise to high offices, but they can’t teach

[ 68 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

twenty-two boys enough football so they don’t make themselves and
the College look ridiculous every time they play in a televised
game?”

HOWARD LOUIS BEER

 

HOME AbpRESs: 4740 Burnley Drive, Bloomfield Hills, Mich. 48013. .

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lincoln-Mercury Division, Ford Motor Co., Dearborn, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Fosdick-Masten High School, Buffalo, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. agna cum laude, 1940; M.B.Ay 1942.

MARRIED: Jane Flickinger, Sept. 7, 1940. CHILDREN: Louis Delamare, March 4,
1945; Vanessa Jane, Sept. 10, 1948; Stephen Emile, April 29, 1955.

HARVARD SON: Louis Delamare Beer, 66.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Theophile Beer, ’45.

OCCUPATION: Marketing staff coordinator, Lincoln-Mercury Division, Ford
Motor Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, treasurer, Village Players of Bir-
mingham; vestry, Christ Church, Cranbrook; member, board of directors,
secretary, Charing Cross Civic Association, 1962-64.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Detroit; Harvard Business School Club of De-

troit.

MY activity in the past twenty-five years has followed this se-
quence: Two years at the Harvard Business School in the last
M.B.A. class prior to World War II; three years as naval officer
during World War IJ, entire service in Washington, D.C., as pro-
curement officer, Bureau of Ordnance; one year of government
service with War Assets Administration; four years with U.S. Steel
Corporation in Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, on marketing staff doing
marketing and economic research; almost two years as a naval officer
during the Korean War, entire service in Washington, D.C., as
procurement officer, Bureau of Ordnance (same building, same desk

[ 69 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

as World War Il); four years in corporate planning as assistant to
the president of a medium-sized wood products manufacturer in
Louisville, Kentucky; last eight years in various staff planning and
marketing assignments with Ford Motor Company, Dearborn,
Michigan.

When reading the above summary of my overt life, it seemed to
me typical of the lower upper-middle-class corporation man.’ It is
also true that I am happily married, raising a family in a suburb,
living comfortably but striving on the slippery rungs of the corpo-
rate ladder to live more comfortably —a persistently elusive aim.
However, having the common aversion to being “typed,” I hasten
to add some words about additional experiences of the past quarter
century, some of which support my self-appraisal as a partial non-
conformist:

Family — married almost immediately after college graduation to
a student of psychology who became a psychiatric social worker,
I have happily enjoyed continuous psycho-therapeutic treatment.
Although overly smug in thinking that my laissez-faire policy of
stimulating growth rather than directing it rewarded me with a son
who has the ability and vitality to tackle Harvard, a daughter of
personality and wit on the threshold of college, and another son with
inspiring fortitude, these results are probably actually due to the
guidance of my able and well-organized wife. Her ability and
energy in keeping our menage together while carrying on a profes-
sional work schedule are amazing. From my physically handicapped
younger boy, we have all learned greatly about the true meanings
of frustration and challenge.

Travel —for twenty years after college, numerous business and
vacation trips took me over a good part of the United States and
Canada, but only in the past five years have I had brief encounters
with South Africa, Europe, the Near East, the Caribbean, and, as I
write, a projected family vacation to Mexico and Guatemala. To
travel in foreign lands is to explore the infinite variety of the human
condition past and present and J have an unquenchable zest for more.

Theatre — critical interest in the serious theatre developed in
college led me in the past five years to a participating role as actor
in one of the oldest continuously performing amateur groups in the
country. The attempt to understand and convey a playwright’s
intent, the participation from behind footlights with an audience in
the creation of a shared imaginative experience, have immensel
deepened my understanding of the theatre as art. I am particularly

[70]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

grateful for this experience because I believe that wisdom and truth
can be conveyed in the theatre with especially powerful impact.

Church — after years of semi-indifference to the organized
church, when faced with the common problem of what and how to
tell young children about life and death, meaning and destiny, we
turned to the Episcopal Church to help us. This request for aid
resulted in a mutual assistance pact, both of us teaching Sunday
School and developing a renewed interest in church affairs. This in
turn led me into association and friendship with clergymen dedi-
cated to the “exploratory” and “experimental” church. I feel privi-
leged to have joined with this hardy band of non-conformist, intel-
lectual adventurers whose profound delving into ancient rites,
symbols, and beliefs with such objective effort to make Christianity
relevant to our age puts them, in my opinion, among the keenest
practical philosophers of our time.

My conclusion from twenty-five years of life after college? Life
is tragic, one is always becoming and never becomes (or always
arriving but never arrives). Nevertheless, life has richness and ex-
citement if one quixotically goes on believing — as I seem compelled
to — that the future will always be better than it turns out to be.

JOSEPH ROGER BEEVER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 208 Sycamore Drive, Naperville, III. 60540.

OFFICE AppREss: U.S. Dept. of Labor, Room 830, 219 S, Dearborn St., Chicago,
Ill. 60604.

PREPARED AT: Mount Vernon High School, Mount Vernon, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B. 1940; LL.B, 1948; M.B.A. (Western
Reserve Univ.), 1956.

MARRIED: Priscilla Rowley, Wellesley °43, Oct. 23, 1949. CHILDREN: Charles G.,
Nov. 5, 19523 Paul J., Sept. 14, 1954; Anne P,, July 13, 1957.

[7]

eee

HARVARD CLASS OF I940

occurarion: Government official; regional director, Office of Veterans’ Re-
employment Rights, U.S. Department of Labor.

puptications: One law review article in Western Reserve Law Review, 1955

or 1956; subject was Legal Liabiliry of Auditing Firms to Third Parties
Who Rely on Their Certification of Financial Statements.

IF this belated biography doesn’t arrive in time to be printed in the
Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report, I don’t think the world will
be much poorer. After all, my past is over, and at this point it is
of relatively little interest even to me. | hope I can avoid the
cuteness that so many informal autobiographical sketches inflict
upon the reader. Anyway, here goes:

Five years in the Army, following hard upon my four years at
Harvard, went far to offset the effects of the latter, for better or
worse. The inscrutable ways of Selective Service and the military
classifiers put me in the medics and sent me to the Southwest Pacific
for most of those five years, usually at a safe distance from where
the action was. I saw quite a bit of Australia and the Australians,
and for a while I felt as much like an Aussie as like a Yank. I cannot
say the same for my even longer sojourn in New Guinea.

Mustered out early in 1946, 1 proceeded to get myself a law
degree, from Harvard of course, while the postwar dust was settling.
This probably had a salutary effect upon my mental habits, but it
obviously did not inculcate a high degree of caution because it was
shortly after law school that I acquired a wife. The time had come
to secure gainful employment, so, after passing the bar exams in
Ohio and Massachusetts, I went to work as a career civil servant.

Children, houses, mortgages, and ever-rising taxes, along with the
rest of the usual routine of suburbia, came on the scene in the
early 1950s. Promotions were frequent enough to keep me from
becoming seriously discontented with my lot, and it gradually
became apparent that I was locked into the system. After ten years
in Cleveland, we moved to Chicago where I have been Regional
Director of the Office of Veterans’ Reemployment Rights, U.S. De-
partment of Labor, since 1960. For over fifteen years now we have
been suburbanites, or perhaps exurbanites would be a more accurate

term since we are thirty-five miles out. It would be hard to pin-
point any significant differences between Chicago and Cleveland
as far as our way of life is concerned. In both places the neighbors
have been mostly salesmen, scientific types, and middle management

men of one kind or another with Harvardians cropping up occasion-
ally but remaining few and far between,

[72]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I offer the following random and incomplete observations as far
as my social, political and religious convictions are concerned:
Children are fine if you don’t let them get the idea that the world
is being run for their amusement and edification. When the time
comes, I shall neither encourage nor discourage my sons about going
to Harvard. After population density reaches a certain point, there
is an inverse relationship between additional numbers of people and
the quality of life. While I was in the Army my politics flip-flopped
eighty or ninety degrees, and I have stood somewhat to the right
of center ever since. I may not be living in the twentieth century,
but I am more concerned with the twenty-first than with the nine-
teenth. The world is closer to an anthill-type society than we like

to think. People should do more of their own thinking and should
resist the pervasive temptation to relax and absorb opinions and
basic premises by osmosis from the environment. I belong to no
church, and I suspect that formal religion as we have known it is
on its last legs; the old forms are not intellectually satisfying enough
to enough people, including me, and the same is true of the new
interpretations that are being advanced in an effort to salvage some-
thing from the old ones. I have never tried very hard to decide
how many of these perverse attitudes can be traced to my seven
years at Harvard, as opposed to simple inborn cussedness. Perhaps
I overcompensate, and I suppose we will continue to muddle through
somehow. Enough said.

EDWARD ATHERTON BEHR

 

HOME ApprEss: 3418 Bradley Lane, Chevy Chase, Md.
orrice appress: Wall Street Journal, rors 14th St. N.W., Washington, D.C.
PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Preparatory School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

[73]

—_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B, 1940,

MARRIED: Marcia Ward, June 10, 1950, catLpREN: Edward Atherton, Jr., June
20, 1951; Robert S., Nov. 2, 1953.
occupation: Washington correspondent, Wall Street Journal.

AFTER knocking about for a few months after graduation, I joined
the Army (via the New York National Guard) and spent some five
years at various training and administrative tasks, rising from private
to captain. Nearly all this time was in the U.S.A.; I arrived in
Europe only just before V-E Day and never heard a shot fired in
anger.

In the summer of 1946 I started out in newspaper work with a job
as a copy reader and reporter on an upstate New York paper.

- During the next two and a half years I did similar work on two
other papers and in 1949 landed at the Wall Street Journal in New
York, where I toiled as a copy editor until 1955 when I joined
the paper’s Washington staff. My work is mainly editing and re-
writing of front-page features, including a weekly column of
Washington news. I have done a little outside writing for the Na-
tional Observer, and | have produced some contributions for a
book due to be published in 1965, on relations between the press
and the government. I gather that very few of my classmates have
chosen newspaper work, but I have found it generally rewarding,
though not in the financial sense.

Unlike many newspapermen, I manage to spend a good deal of
time with my family, and in the past two years have been able to
free my wife, who is a highly skilled actress, to appear in three
plays at Washington’s Arena Stage, a professional repertory com-
pany of growing national repute. In the summer of 1965 we plan
to contribute to the education of our two boys, now aged eleven
and thirteen, by taking them to Europe for the first time. In the
current competitive circumstances there is little chance that either
of my sons will follow their father to Harvard, but I cannot say
that prospect disturbs me greatly,

[74]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

REYNOLD BENNETT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 903 Park Ave., New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICE appREss: National Association of Manufacturers, 277 Park Ave., New
York, N.Y. 10017.

PREPARED AT: Detroit Central School, Detroit, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1941. DEGREES: S.B., 1940(41); LL.B. (Georgetown Univ.),
1948; LL.M. (Univ. of Cambridge), 1949.

MarRIED: Dorothy Decker Dyer. cHmpreN: Reynold Kane, Dec. 9, 1956;
Dorothy Dyer.

occUPATION: Lawyer and business executive.

OFFICES HELD: Editor, Federal Bar Journal, consultant to ad boc committees of
US. Departments of Defense and Commerce; president, Layman’s League,
All Souls Unitarian Church.

MEMBER OF: American, New York and Michigan Bar Associations, Copyright
Society; New York Patent Law Association; International Patent and
Trademark Association; National Association of Manufacturers (staff
director); Property Administration Association (former general counsel) ;
Harvard Club of New York; Oxford Cambridge Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Government-sponsored historical studies and articles on federal
contracts, industrial property rights and defense business appearing largely
in professional and trade journals.

OF course, the satisfactions I have experienced since 1940 have been
matched by a number of thumps. My materialistic circumstances
through the years have probably been not so bad. I am sometimes
convinced, moreover, that I am earning a passing grade in coming-
to-terms with life.

Thinking back on the years at college, they added a wealth of
material to existing personal confusion, World War II afforded
me a little time and objectivity for digesting what had happened
up through Harvard. Also while in military service I managed to
carry out the responsibilities of being an Army officer. Primarily,

[75]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

this involved commanding a small unit in the South Pacific and
later writing a war history in the Pentagon and in an Executive
Office agency. Uncle Sam was good enough to sponsor my legal
education and, for that, | was obliged to serve an extra tour of
duty as a “JAG” officer but still in Washington on legislative liaison
assignments.

In 1948-49 I was admitted to do graduate work at Cambridge,
England, and received a Diploma in International Law. My initial
experiences in England were about as catalytic to my wonderment
as at Cambridge, Massachusetts, Also during those graduate days a
romanticized taste for Europe entered my notions. I have not over-
come that feeling and keep an up-to-date passport here in my desk.

Although I am a member of the New York and Michigan bars,
my work to a great extent has been in the business world as well
as in the legal field. It may be generally interesting as well as
personally significant that a large amount of my time has been
occupied i in directing certain staff activities of the National Associa-
tion of Manufacturers. My responsibilities have related primarily
to industrial technological developments and national defense mat-
ters. This would indicate a conservative economics leaning. How-
ever, I am to be counted among those who admired Jack Kennedy
for a number of things including his general liberalism.

Still writing about vital statistics, after the ending of what was
thought to be a lasting initial marriage, I met someone with whom
the smiles came in unprecedented quality and quantity. We were
married one glorious day in May and floated resolutely on a cumulus
to the south of France. I now carry pictures in the category of
fine-son and lovely-daughter.

I try to keep in fair shape by working out at the New York
Harvard Club during the week and by swimming in indoor or out-
door pools at opportune times. The primary enemy to my physical
well-being involves the so-called business-reception luncheon. Also,
my wife and I enjoy providing solid and liquid fuel of questionable
ingestive value to friends and relatives, most of whom come in to
Manhattan with the expectation of being entertained.

I suppose it is a sign of being on the other side of the hill when
ambitions seem to center around the future of your children. Don
Thurber’s questionnaire will, for example, probably show that a

great number of 1940 would not mind seeing likely sons and daugh-
ters spend some time about The Square. I would too but certainly,
more than ever, there are numerous and exciting types of educa-

[ 76 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tional opportunities for our offspring today. My kids occupy with
this typewriter the hoped-for pipeline to immortality. Having some-
thing to say for broad consumption from time to time has resulted
in a number of articles appearing under my name in various publica-
tions. Perhaps some day I shall have sufficient grasp on a subject
that will sustain a lengthy and widely-appearing book. Then there
may be a few more scattered members of 1940 thinking “I re-
member him when.”

WILLIAM SHIFFER BENNINGHOFF

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2705 Provincial Drive, Ann Arbor, Mich. 48104.

OFFICE appREss: Dept, of Botany, University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.
48104.

PREPARED AT: North Side High School, Fort Wayne, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: S.B., #lagna cum laude, 1940; A.M., 19423
PH.D., 1948.

MarrigeD: Gladys Helen Kunst, April 19, 1941. CHILDREN: Valerie Anne, June
29, 1949; Jonathan William, Dec. 28, 1951.

occuPATION: Professor of botany, University of Michigan.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of governors, Arctic Institute of North America,
1957-63; member, Advisory Committee on Ecology, Division of Biology
and Medicine, Atomic Energy Commission, 1958-60; member, University
Committee on Polar Research, 1958-Go, Panel on Biological and Medical
Sciences, Committee on Polar Research, since 1961, National Academy of
Sciences-National Research Council; executive secretary, Committee on the
International Biological Programme, Ecological Society of America,
1963-64; chairman, Research Committee, Arctic Institute of North
America, 1964-66.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science (fellow);
American Geographical Society (fellow); American Society of Limnology
and Oceanography; Arctic Institute of North America (fellow); Botanical
Society of America; Ecological Society of America; Explorers Club of

[77]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.10

DAVID WILLIAM BENSLEY

 

HOME AppRESS: 13398 Park St., Alden, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Manufacturers & Traders Trust Co., 1110 Union Rd., West
Seneca 24, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: East Aurora High School, East Aurora, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.
marriep: Edith L. Mumford, Wellesley °43, Jan. 20, 1944. CHILDREN: David

William, Jr. Dec. 27, 1944; Albert M., July 3, 1946; Marilyn E., April 23,
1950; Robert G., April 27, 1953.

occupation: Assistant vice-president, Manufacturers & Traders Trust Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, West Seneca Chamber of Commerce, 1964; vice-pres-
ident, West Seneca Historical Society, 1962-64; secretary and director,
Frie-Niagara Counties Bankers Association, 1964; president, Rotary Club
of West Seneca, 1960; master, Alden Lodge, F. & A.M. No. 594, 1952.

IN 1939 Harvard started a flight training program in which I became
interested. This led to my enlisting with the then Army Air Corps
as a flying cadet. Receiving a commission in September, 1941, I was
assigned to the 47th Light Bombardment Group and one year later
we were flying by way of Greenland to the new African campaign.
The 47th operated there, in Malta, and in Italy.

After returning home, I married a Wellesley girl, Class of 1943,
and was assigned to the Long Beach, California, base of the Air
Transport Command for the duration. While in the service, I saw
a part of the world, and when the war was over, the family (we
had Dave, Jr., then) decided that for a permanent residence, there
was no place like the northeastern United States for opportunity and
variety in business, recreation and general living. We came back to
Alden and after working one year for American Airlines, 1 became

an “executive trainee” with the Manufacturers & Traders Trust
Company in Buffalo.

[ 80 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The family increased and we built our home in 1948. The bank-
ing business has given me a chance to be close to many phases of the
rapid development of this area and for the past few years I have been
in charge of our West Seneca office. West Seneca is a town of
40,000 population just southeast of Buffalo. It is one of many ex-
panding suburbs with a flourishing building and mortgage business.
It is also an old community with historical interest, and it is this
which our civic organizations are trying to preserve.

As for hobbies, I have always had a great interest in the outdoors,
but find myself gradually becoming more and more interested in the
natural sciences and ornithology. When answering questionnaires I
now list these instead of hunting and fishing, although the family
still enjoys a game dinner now and then. The elective courses in

astronomy, biology and geology which I took at Harvard have been
especially appreciated in the past few years. I think I have been
fortunate in having a family also interested im such things. Our
vacations are spent together in some remote spot in northern On-
tario, Maine, or in the South. Thanks to better conservation pro-
grams, there are still a few places left.

The decision of twenty years ago to settle in the northeast has
been one of our good ones.

PHILLIPS BROOKS BENYAMIN

 

HOME ApbREss: 813 20th St., South Arlington, Va. 22202. ‘

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sul Ross State College, Alpine, Texas.

PREPARED AT: Williston Academy, Easthampton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, 1940; A.M. (Columbia Univ.), 19523
A.M. (Harvard Univ.), 1961.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John William Benyamin, ’35; Fred Ball Benyamin, °41.

[81]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

occupation: Assistant professor of English, Sul Ross State College; have been

teaching English and philosophy at several eastern and midwestern colleges
and universities.

MY life has been uneventful; and in alternating between a student
and a teacher my most thrilling moments have been stumbling on
words and ideas. I have experienced the ecstasy and despair of a
martyr to interests too varied to be tamed: philosophy, religion,
recreation, literature, languages and writing.
Firmly convinced of God, I am as keenly aware of my nescience
of the Divine. And whatever the Unknown may turn out to be in
the progress of knowledge, I do believe there is an awakening and
spread of a new spirit of compassion and humaneness, a nameless
world-fermenting religion in the making, a semi-mystic, a semi-
scientific combination of humanism and humanitarianism which will
guide mankind from its present jumble of cross purposes to peace,
cooperation and brotherhood.
In conclusion, 1 wish to say | am grateful to Harvard for the best
education that America can offer, in being a member of the illustrious
Class of 1940 which through the beacon of John F. Kennedy has

brightened the prospect of the unity of man, and look forward to
be useful to Harvard in enlightening the nascent era of man.

ROBERT LEWIS BERG

 

HOME AbpRESS: 227 Pelham Rd., Rochester, N.Y. 14610.

OFFICE appREss: Strong Memorial Hospital, University of Rochester School of
Medicine, Rochester, N.Y. 14620.

preparen at: North Central High School, Spokane, Wash,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: 8.8, magna cum laude, 1940, M.D., CUM
laude, 1943.

[ 82]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Florence Mitcham Foster, June 18, 1943. CHILDREN: Erik Christian,
June 17, 1950; Astri Maren, May 10, 1952.

occUPATION: Professor and chairman, Department of Preventive Medicine and
Community Health, University of Rochester School of Medicine and
Dentistry.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Day Care Center for Handicapped
Children, Hearing & Speech Center of Rochester, Rochester Rehabilita-
tion Center, Health Association of Rochester and Monroe County;
secretary-treasurer, Association of Teachers of Preventive Medicine.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Allergy; Association of American Medical
Colleges; Association of Teachers of Preventive Medicine; Industrial
Medical Association; New York Academy of Sciences; American Public
Health Association; American Federation for Clinical Research; Massa-
chusetts Medical Society; Royal Society of Health; International Epidem-
iological Association; Medical Society of the County of Monroe and
State of New York; Rochester Academy of Medicine.

PUBLICATIONS: Assorted papers on biochemistry, immunology and epidemiology.

TRANSFER from Harvard College to Harvard Medical School was
accomplished in a rented truck, from the Charles to the Muddy
River, or more accurately Leverett Pond, since my medical school
home was mostly the Free Hospital for Women. Marriage in my
last year delivered me from hospital living to the support of a hard-
working wife (a Radcliffe graduate in fine arts). Internship and
residency followed at the Massachusetts General Hospital, a pretty
fair institution, but in those days interns received no pay, although
residents got three hundred dollars.

As the war ended, I began a two-year stint in the Navy — never
aboard a ship — entirely at the U.S. Naval Hospital in Chelsea.
It was a sobering experience, for there was too little concern for
patients. The next phase was an exploration of laboratory research
at the Karolinska Institut in Stockholm. For me, the laboratory and
Sweden shared a common characteristic: a wonderful place to visit
but not to live in. The subsequent return to Harvard and the M.G.H.
involved the usual mixture of patient care, teaching, and research,
but in addition, increasing amounts of administrative work. Al-
though functioning as an allergist, I became increasingly concerned
with the comprehensive care of patients.

In 1958, I switched my allegiance from medicine to preventive
medicine and from Harvard to the University of Rochester. The
new job emphasized teaching comprehensive patient care and now
involves rehabilitation, industrial medicine, community health plan-
ning, care of the chronically ill, and programs with migrant labor.

A question arises from this that affects both professional and per-

[ 83]

1

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

sonal life, and this is, how comprehensive can one afford to be?
My teaching responsibilities involve a bias, but in both areas I
believe most of the world (medical and non-medical) is too narrow,
isolated, and parochial. As a result, patients do not get adequate
care, and most of us are culturally deprived when it comes to the
other person's culture.

Our personal horizon-extender has been early church architecture,
most recently Visigothic and other pre-Romanesque remains in

Spain. The Visigoths got around, but maybe their horizons were
too broad; they just faded away,

JASON CARL BERGER

 

|

HOME appress: 300 Oxford Rd., New Rochelle, N.Y.

OFFICE abpress: Simon & Schuster, Inc., 630 Fifth Ave, New York 20, N.Y.

PREPARED At: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.; Brookline High School,
Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREE: $.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Susanna Wittenberg, July 7, 1944. CHILDREN: Craig Michael, Aug. 29,
1948; Stephen Jay, Jan. 9, 1951.

occupation: Vice-president, Simon & Schuster, Inc., book publishers.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; Newcomen Society, Society of American Travel
Writers.

TOWARD the end of my junior year at Harvard I decided that
after graduation I would go to Italy to live and work. Immediately
after my final exams of that year I went to Europe and bicycled all
through England, Holland, Belgium, France, and Switzerland. 1
spent the months of July and August in Rome learning how to pro-
duce cheese. 1 planned to settle there and export cheese to my
brother in Boston for distribution throughout the United States.

{ 84]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The arrangement looked ideal for I was working under the guidance
of the largest producer in Italy — a man my father had represented
in America for over fifty years. It was understood that I was to take
over his business. When the war started in Europe in September, I
went home to complete my senior year at Harvard. During the war
the government took over this particular business and my father’s
Italian associate died, resulting in the entire set-up’s dissipation.

Two days after graduation, I flew out to California to work at
Flothill Products, a large canning factory situated in Stockton. I
spent four months there learning every phase of this business. In
October I returned to New York to learn its sales aspects.

In March of 1941 I was drafted. After some eight months of
training I was sent to the South Pacific as a private in the Infantry.
Fortunately, I ended up on the French colony of New Caledonia.
The night of our arrival I left my company’s bivouac area and made
my way back to Headquarters where I informed the sergeant major
that I had a fluent knowledge of French. This resulted in my re-
maining on this island for three years as the commanding general’s
interpreter, etc. Eventually I became a captain. During this time I
was the intelligence officer for the island, the troop movement offi-
cer, in charge of lend-lease and all relations with the French govern-
ment. Finally, I became the assistant executive officer of the Base
Command and commanding officer of Headquarters Company.
Upon my return to the United States, I spent some six months at
Fort Devens and a like period at Camp Edwards.

As soon as I got out of the Army I started work in the publishing
business as an independent commissioned sales representative. This
was very remunerative but work which required my being on the
road infinitely more than I wanted. At one time I represented seven-
teen different publishers for the area from Maine to Washington.
My major achievement was the introduction of the sale of low-
priced children’s books in the supermarkets and chain stores. I was
the first one to succeed in selling Little Golden Books in this area.
As a result gf this, Simon and Schuster urged me to become part of
their office staff in New York City. When I felt that I had reached
the highest level possible in the field of sales, I decided to move to
New York and devote all of my efforts to the creation of special
books and sales at Simon and Schuster.

Shortly after I started on this new assignment I had a great idea.
I realized that what America needed was its own Guide Michelin.
After a number of months I convinced the Mobil Oil Company of

[ 85 ]

| | |

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

the validity of sponsoring the fulfillment of this concept. Mrs.
Berger and I went to Austin, Texas, to set up a pilot operation. We
inspected every hotel, motel, and restaurant in this city and evaluated
them on a one-to-five-star system. We described every point of
interest and everything to see and do in that city. When we pre-
sented this material to the board of directors of the Mobil Oil Com-
pany, they were sufficiently responsible to authorize Simon and
Schuster’s publishing a volume covering the South Central States.
About this time, Mrs. Berger and | went to France to study the
Michelin procedures. We were fortunate in being the only indi-
viduals that Michelin has ever allowed to do this. With the invaluable
information we gathered from them over a period of two years, we

returned to the States where I was able to set up an organization to

do the research for these Guides. Today we have approximately

one hundred people working on this program. We now publish

annually completely revised editions of seven regional 500-page

guides covering the entire United States. This Mobil Travel Guide

program has become one of the largest and most respected in the

entire publishing industry. I now devote the major part of my

energies to this project.

As vice-president of Simon and Schuster, I am involved in an
infinite number of publications. I find the work stimulating and
provocative. I cannot imagine a more rewarding profession than
book publishing nor a better place to practise it than at Simon and
Schuster. The work is fascinating for 1 am with interesting people
not only during the day but in the evenings and on weekends as well.

I have been involved with a number of Harvard graduates: most
recently with Arthur Schlesinger when we published The Faces of
Five Decades with the New Republic. Prior to that 1 was responsible
for our publishing a four-volume set entitled The World of Business
which we did with the Harvard Business School. My work allows
me to travel throughout the world. Only two years ago I was sent
to France to work with Mare Chagall and Picasso on books that
Simon and Schuster wanted to create, 4
Our family life in New Rochelle (other than my commuting on
the New Haven Railroad) is pleasant and comfortable. Both Craig
and Stephen attend the public schools there. All of us feel that they
are getting an excellent preparation for their future years at M.I.T.

and Harvard respectively. My wife, Susanna, in addition to being
active in the Radcliffe Club of Westchester and an infinite number

of other worthy organizations, devotes the major part of her free

| 86}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

time to teaching children in the public schools who have been
unable to learn to read, Although very difficult, she finds this work
extremely rewarding. .

My studies at Harvard have stood me in good stead. I always
knew that I was going to be in the world of business. It was for this
reason that I felt I needed the balancing effect of an excellent back-
ground in the fields of literature, music, and art. Consequently,
during my years at Harvard I devoted all of my efforts to these
three areas rather than that of economics. As things worked out, my
French and Italian were of incalculable help. My background in
literature, music, and art has been the keystone to my success and
happiness in the publishing field.

In summary, I am an extremely happy guy who loves life and the
world around us.

LESTER DOW BERGER, JR.

 

baba :

HOME ADDRESS: 354 Fletcher Drive, Atherton, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Union Carbide Corp., 22 Battery St., San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarRIED: Jane Elizabeth Harvey, Wheaton ’42, Sept. 5, 1942. CHILDREN: Lester
Dow, 3d, Oct. 14, 1945; Peter Bromley, June 12, 1947; David Harvey,
Novy. 15, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Philip Raymond Berger, ’49, a.M. 54.

OccUPATION: Western regional manager, Chemicals Division, Union Carbide
Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Co-president (with Mrs. B.), South School Association, New
Canaan, Conn., 1957; St. Luke’s School Parents Council, 1960-62; presi-
dent, Harvard Club of New Canaan, 1960-61; governor, Chemical Special-
ties Manufacturers Association, 1960-61; district leader, New Canaan
Republican Town Committee, 1961-64; member, Steering Committee and

[ 87 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

Public Relations Committee, The Soap and Detergent Association, 1963-
64; Vice-president and director, Michigan Hors, Inc., 1964; chairman, Na-
tional Program Committee, Commercial Chemical Development Associa-
tion, 1963-64.

MEMBER oF: American Chemical Society; American Oil Chemists Society;
Association of Harvard Chemists; Commercial Chemical Development As-
sociation; Connecticut Society of the Sons of the American Revolution;
New Canaan Town Players; New Canaan Field Club; Harvard Clubs of

New Canaan and New York; Sports Car Club of America; Army-Navy
Club of Charleston, West Virginia.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers and articles in chemical journals or trade papers.

SOMEWHERE tonight there sleeps a potential savior of all harried
twenty-five-vear alumni and alumnae, who will someday create the
standard form reunion report. His contribution to society will be a
narrative form document; concise, witty, all-inclusive as to career,
hobbies, war record, convictions, acquittals, family, aspirations and
defeats. Just fill in the blanks and X out the inappropriate passages,
and one of life’s most precarious episodes will have been survived.
At five dollars per head (plus a cut of the savings on the Reunion Re-
port Budget, which should be granted willingly by deadline-con-
scious Class Secretaries), he will prosper well. May he soon emerge
from anonymity to benefit our successors.

“This account of life since graduation” —a rough assignment!
How does one account for life? Is it possible to write a balance sheet
and a profit and loss statement on twenty-five years? Now there’s
a stuffy approach! ‘Try again —

Ok, let’s try the chronol ogy bit. Three days after graduation
started work as a chemist for Union Carbide, left in ’41 for a five-
vear hitch in the Navy emerging as lieutenant commander and the
details of all that are pretty hazy, except for marriage in *42 which
somehow has managed to survive everything. Three sons, born re-
spectively in Norfolk, Virginia; Seattle, Washington, and Oak
Ridge, Tennessee —a capsule comment on the peripatetic society.
Following Navy discharge, back to Union Carbide and a succession
of rung by rung job assignments in sales and marketing. Very
challenging stuff, actually, involving the melding of technology,

peddling and people management into a coherent whole. The last
twelve vears have been spent in the New York headquarters leading
to a job as marketing manager for the Chemical Division of UCC.
And this should qualify as good solid median accomplishment level at
Twenty-fifth Reunion time. On the home front, twelve years in
the town of New Canaan, Connecticut, also with gradually expand-

[ 88 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing responsibilities and interests, roots going deeper, beginning to feel

like a real resident, even making some contributions to the life of the

community. And then somebody rewrote the script.

So — here we are living in Atherton, California. New Job — west
coast manager for Union Carbide Chemicals Division. Very challeng-
ing stuff, actually, involving the melding of technology, peddling
and people management into a coherent whole. Also new roots to
start, and many adjustments to make. Two major problems — how
to fit all the things from a New England colonial house into a Cali-
fornia ranch house — and — how to get the whole tribe back to
Cambridge for the Twenty-fifth Reunion.

So much for chronology.

Travels? J favor the point of view of the wise man who said, “Ill
promise not to show you my pictures if you'll promise not to show
me yours,”

Hobbies? Oh, yes— quite a few. The most important one is
collecting avocations so when retirement comes there won't be time
enough to do all the things that are waiting to get done. Examples
include: Early American antiques, rebuilding and restoration of,

sports cars, any vintage, rebuilding and restoration of; houses, any
vintage, rebuilding and restoration of, jazz music, understanding and
appreciation of — also occasionally performance of; amateur theatri-
cals, production of and participation in; small businesses, involvement
and investment in.

Convictions? Well, not many, but these are strong ones:

It is a better world than it was twenty-five years ago—more
confusing, certainly, but better.

‘Teen-age people, particularly male people in our case, are frustrat-
ing, irritating, irresponsible, unpredictable and pretty wonderful.
They have tremendous untapped reserves rarely seen or understood
by our generation, and there are grounds for great faith that they will
do a better job with the world than we have done.

I really feel the same today as I did twenty-five years ago, tem-
pered slightly perhaps by the benefits of hard-won experience. Bring
on the next twenty-five.

[ 89 ]

peor AARNE I OI es een oe eee

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

BERNARD DAVID BERGMAN

 

ME ADDRESS: 33 Cannon St., Newton Highlands, Mass.

ICE ADpREss: Commonwealth Sales, 272 Centre St., Newton, Mass.

paRED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

RS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B, 1940.

:rteD: Charlotte Saltzman, March 22, 1942. CHILDREN: Nancy Ann, May 18,
1949; Emily Paula, Nov. 16, 1953.

‘PATION: Mfanufacturers’ representative — salesman,

FER graduation I found myself working, getting married and
g drafted — in that order. I was commissioned a second lieuten-
in the Quartermaster Corps at Camp Lee, Virginia, in April of
, after which I found myself transferred to the Air Corps in
da, Salt Lake City, and McCook, Nebraska, My application for
ary Government School was accepted early 1 in 1945, at which
I attended the University of Virginia for a time and was about
sent back to Harvard for six months when the Japanese decided
‘render. My wife and I crossed the country by car to Monterey,
ornia, where I was stationed for over a month, shipping out
there to Japan on November 1, 1945. A very pleasant year was
in the beautiful country with the mysterious Orientals. I was
1ed to the States late in 1946 and was discharged from the serv-
a captain in the Air Corps.
nediately thereafter I made the basic mistake of going into the
business and struggling therein till sometime in 1958, at which
' changed jobs, requiring a move to Tennessee. This un-
ately didn’t work out too well, so the return was made to the
1 area, at which time the attempt was made to get into the
‘ing business. Once again I found myself in Japan in early 1959
2 results were most unrewarding,

[ 90 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Consequently, late in 1959, I was in a situation where in order to
supply the basic necessities of life it was necessary to find gainful
employment. An opportunity arose with a sales agency, and though
the prospects looked quite bleak at the time, things have turned out
quite well — to understate the case. We have recently moved into
a new home and have been caught up in the tempo of suburban living
with the customary pressures. However, we probably wouldn’t have
it any other way.

HERBERT LAWRENCE BERMAN

 

HOME AppRESS: 30 Ellis Rd.. West Newton, Mass. 02165.

OFFICE apprEss: Foley, Hoag & Eliot, 10 Post Office Sq, Boston, Mass. 02109.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., #agna cum laude, 1940; LL.B. Ct
laude, 1943.

MARRIED: Evelyn M. Alintuck, Dec. 5, 1948. CHILDREN: Russell Alexander, May
14, 1950; Henry Louis, Aug. 14, 1952; Martin, Sept. 9, 1954.

OccUPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm of Foley, Hoag & Eliot.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee and secretary, Hebrew Teachers College.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associations;
United Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

FOURTH score and twenty years ago—this Reunion seemed a
world away. Now that it’s here, it’s not the years, it’s the rapidity.

My life as an alumnus began back in Cambridge with three years.
at the Law School, followed then by a law clerkship to the late
Mr. Justice Ronan of the Massachusetts Supreme Judicial Court.
Although the experience in that kind of position is unique, the
rewards for faithful service do not include stepping up into the
boss’s shoes. |

[91]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Vn 1945, 1 yomed the law firm with which I have remained ever
since, except for a period at the end of World War II when the
Army apparently decided 1 was essential to the office of the Eighth
Army Judge Advocate in Japan. Fortunately for all of us, most

of the Army’s decisions in those days were not as wrong as that

one.

Back in 1945, our law office consisted of four lawyers plus me;
today, there are twenty of us, and we're still growing. I must add
that the years have made me lighter, and life more enjoyable, by
my office associations during this period. 1 count the friendship of

my law associates among my most valuable dividends, and tax-free

to boot.

In 1948, 1 was a party to a matrimonial merger which has resulted
in three spin-offs, now aged fourteen, twelve and ten, all sons and
no misses. It sounds like a tax planner’s dream, but the truth is,
taxes Of ho taxes, they are what makes life worth living.

As L look forward to the Reunion festivities in June, I’m glad that
they take place while we are still at an age young enough to enjoy

them. | often wonder how those old men I saw in the Class of 15
managed at their Twenty-fifth.

MANDELL LESLIE BERMAN

 

HOME appress: 18065 Hamilton Rd., Detroit, Mich. 48203. .
OFEICE ApprEss: Bert L. Smokler & Co., 200 Northland Towers, Southfield, Mich.
PREPARED AT. Detroit Central High School, Detroit, Mich.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1940; M.BiAd 1943-
maaeiep: Madeleine Harris Brodie, April 1s, 1950. cuinren: Ann Esther, May
15, 19525 Jonathan Steven, March 23, 1954.
occuPATION: Senior vice-president, Smokler & Company and Standard Mortgage

{92 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Corporation, residential land developers, builders and mortgage bankers,

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Metropolitan Detroit Builders
Association; officer and trustee, Congregation Shaarey Zedek in Detroit;
national director, National Association of Home Builders; vice-president,
American Association of Jewish Education; member, Detroit Metropolitan
Regional Planning Commission, member, board of governors and ex-
ecutive committee, Detroit Jewish Welfare Federation, trustee, Clover
Hill Park Cemetery.

MEMBER OF: Franklin Hills Country Club; Harvard Business School Association;
Harvard Club of Eastern Michigan.

I WOULD think that. if all of our Class could agree on any one
thing, it would be the truism that the past twenty-five years look
differently to each of us, depending on the vantage point from
which we look back at them.

For me, as I write this, these intervening years seem to have
become increasingly productive and satisfying. I am a little sur-
prised, and naturally pleased, to have had this opportunity sort of
pushed at me to remind myself again that this is true.

In retrospect, I think I might remind those classmates who may
remember me that I spent only three years as an undergraduate in
the College. I came to Harvard as a sophomore. I spent the next
three years across the river at the Business Schoo] working harder
(at least until December 7, 1941) than I probably worked before or,
most certainly, since. I then spent almost four years in the Navy,
including a stint with the Marines, among other chores landing with
them on Okinawa. .

I came back to Detroit where I’ve lived since. Along the way
I've acquired a Northwestern University wife, two handsome chil-
dren, now ten and twelve, who keep me thinking I’m much younger
than I am, a large, kind of creaking old house “which we've added
to almost yearly, a neurotic collie, and a rambling Japanese garden
which was designed for us, but which we “built ourselves” and of
which we’re immensely proud.

Our recreation patterns have changed with the age of our chil-
dren. Right now, we’re skiing as often as we can in winter and
we're doing a lot of golfing in the summer. I don’t think I have
played any squash in five years. I should report that Pm known in
our neighborhood as the most vociferous and least knowledgable of
our Little League umpires.

Vocationally, the story is that of a residential home builder and
land developer who grew and continues to grow with our industry.
Our firm (owned by my brother-in-law and me) has had a fair

[93]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

share of the residential growth of metropolitan Detroit, and we're
now expanding throughout the state and into such diverse out-of-
state areas as Kansas City and Omaha, among others, with multi-
unit developments. It’s proving to need more traveling than I’d
expected, for now, and while we’re learning some additional old-
fashioned “B School” delegation techniques, I’ve had the opportunity
personally to see much more of our very large Middle West than
I'd planned. .

All of this shouldn’t have left much time for community activities,
but it has. [ have been giving increasingly more time to our local
and national trade association as a Board member and officer, and
I have been giving some time, as well, to the Detroit Metropolitan
Regional Planning Commission, to which I was appointed in 1961.
I've also been involved on a leadership basis in our local and national
Jewish Welfare and educational agencies almost since I came home
in 1946. At this point I’m a member of our Welfare Fund executive
committee, with particular interest in the community-supported
Metropolitan Hebrew School system which I head; and 'm now
an officer of the National Association which is interesting itself in
coordinating the activities of Jewish educational institutions of all
of our large cities.

My wife and I, particularly my wife, became involved this last
year in the local Detroit Serve Our Schools Committee which was
more or less reinvigorated in our living room in order to sponsor
three candidates for our Detroit Board of Education. After a hectic
campaign, we are amazed to report that all three candidates were
elected, giving us a massive dose of practical politics in the process.

I might also add, although we're not quite sure if we're proud
of its great size and corresponding cost, that 1 have just completed
a stint as chairman of the Building Committee of what is said to be
the largest Jewish religious structure anywhere, which is now in use
just outside Detroit.

I don’t think that any ruminations and prognostications that I
might add at this point would differ, at least not very much, from
what the rest of us are concerned about and optimistic about in
view of the increasing benefits and uncertainties with which twen-
tieth century scientific creativity is surrounding us, | guess we could
say that I’m just as worried, just as hopeful, and darned grateful

for these good years while they're here, pretty much all at the same
time.

194]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PETER LEWYN BERNSTEIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1161 York Ave., New York, N.Y. 10021.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Bernstein-Macaulay, Inc., 341 Madison Ave., New York 17,

N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., Magna cum laude, 1940.

marrigp: Shirley Dowd, July 15, 1945.
occupation: Investment counsel; executive vice-president, Bernstein-Macaulay,

Inc.; lecturer in economics, New School for Social Research, New York

City.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Economic Association;
American Finance Association; English-Speaking Union; Diners Club.
puslications: The Price of Prosperity, Doubleday, 1961, A Primer on Money,
Banking and Gold, Random House-Knopf, 1965; co-author with Robert
L. Heilbroner, A Primer on Government Spending, Random House-Knopf,
1963; articles in New York Times, Harvard Business Review, Review of
Economics and Statistics, American Economic Review, The Nation, The

New Republic, etc.

I HAVE never forgotten the time when my father — who seemed
very venerable at the time — went to his 25th Harvard Reunion in
1927. At my then tender age of eight, I was unable to understand
how a book could have two pictures of the same person, each picture
so strikingly different from the other. Now I do understand.
Nevertheless, the years since college have been happy and fruit-
ful. I have had a wonderful marriage with a girl ] met overseas
during the war (we were both in OSS and married in Wiesbaden
after emergency revisions in the Nuremberg laws). After a highly
educational six years of teaching and banking, I took over my
father’s investment counsel firm at his death in 1951. Our clientele
has since tripled, but we still enjoy the flexibility and personal
touch of a small organization. I have managed to do a lot of writing

[95 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

and lecturing on the side, and teaching at the New School for Social
Research and occasional lectures elsewhere keep the academic aura
while I earn a pleasant living at business.

We are delighted that we have no children. In retrospect, I be-
lieve that this is the single most non-conformist decision one can
make in our society, But this has given us the opportunity to do a
areat deal of traveling, as well as enjoying the stimulating companion-
ship of an extraordinary pet rabbit named Domenica (after a popu-
lar Italian song, “Sempre Domenica”). We have also succumbed to
the temptations of a country home in the Vermont woods. ,

In the course of a lifetime, one makes perhaps ten — and probably
fewer — truly crucial decisions and choices. Surely one of them in
my life was the decision to go to Harvard, There is where I learned
the i importance of human and social values, the excitement of inde-
pendent query and analysis, the adventure and fun that life has to

offer, and respect for institutions that honor traditions and still
have the flexibility to welcome change.

HUGH CECIL BERTSCH

 

HOME AbpRESS: 5560 Pershing Ave., St. Louis, Mo. 63112,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Mallinckrodt Chemical Works, P.O. Box 5439, St. Louis, Mo.
63160.

PREPARED AT: Kiser Junior and Senior High School, Dayton, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: $.8., cum laude, 1940.

marrieD: Olga Mary Wolverson, June 5, 1943 (died May 9, 1954). CHILDREN:
William Archibald, Nov. 2, 1944; Katherine Ann, Dec. 7, 1946.

occupation: Research chemist, Mallinckrodt Chemical Works, manufacturers
of fine chemicals.

OFFICES HELD: Scoutmaster, cubmaster, assistant scoutmaster, troop committee-

[96]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

man, member of District Committee as Catholic Lay Chaplain, Merit
Badge Counsellor (all with Boy Scouts of America).

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Alpha Chi Sigma Fraternity, Eagle
Scout Association,

puBLicaTIONS: U.S, Patent on Basic Calcium Chloride, its Preparation and Use;
U.S, and Foreign Patents on Ferrous Fumarate and its Use in Iron Therapy.

AFTER graduation I went to St. Louis where I started working
with the Mallinckrodt Chemical Works. Except for an occasional
leave of absence, I have been with this company the past twenty-
five years. My career as a chemist has brought me little renown
outside of my company, but it has been rewarding in personal
satisfactions. Over the years J have managed to hang on to a labora-
tory and to evade the tedium of a desk job and paper work.

I was ordered to active duty with the Field Artillery shortly after
the attack on Pearl Harbor. By the following August my residence
was a General Hospital, whence I was sent home with a medical
escort. My further contributions to the war effort included a short
period of work for the Manhattan District and the development of
an improved anti-flash agent for artillery shells. The latter project
involved setting up a plant with improvised equipment (imagine
mixing chemicals in a second-hand concrete mixer!) to meet Ord-
nance’s requirements for the chemical.

After military service a wife and a family introduced new sources
of pleasure, while with the end of the war I was also able to satisfy
my yen for travel. One summer we spent visiting my wife’s rela-
tives in England. One of my fond memories is the shipboard party
to celebrate our tenth wedding anniversary. At the end of the eve-
ning we went out on deck. The ship was shrouded with fog and
the beat of the engines was stilled, since we were lying off the
Mersey Bar waiting for the tide. Little did we dream that night that
in less than a year my wife would lie dying, with both her lungs
filled with cancerous growths.

My children went to live with my parents in California, w vhile I
stayed on in St. Louis. During the summers I introduced the children
to new experiences and to the beauty spots of America’s West — by
train or plane, by car or horse or mule, even on foot — wherever our
fancy took us. There was the mule trip to Phantom Ranch at the
bottom of the Grand Canyon, the visits to the Indian Reservations
and the cliffdweller ruins, the week my son and I spent hiking and

camping in the High Sierra, our climbing expeditions on Afount
Rainier and in the Cascade Pass region (William is proud that he

[97 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

has been ropemate with a man who stood on Everest’s summit in
63), boat trips on the Pacific Ocean. Much time and effort has
also been devoted to Scouting activities. As Cub, Scout and Scouter
I now have almost thirty-five years’ continuous service with the
Boy Scouts.

Seven years ago my son decided he had a vocation for the priest-
hood, and last year began his novitiate at San Miguel Mission in
California. He is now officially Frater Hans, O.F.M., with another
six years before he attains his goal. My daughter has been active in
school activities and athletics, and has also earned a long list of
academic honors. Last June when Kathy graduated from Poly-
technic High School in San Francisco, she was selected to be one of
the Presidential Scholars, The visit to the White House was an
exciting experience she will long remember. Kathy decided to stay
on the west coast and is now attending Santa Clara University.

So the past twenty-five years has dealt me a full share of head-
aches and joys. 1 wonder what tale the coming years will tell.

PETER CREIGHTON BEST

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 1951 318t St., W., Seattle, Wash,

[ 98 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHRISTOPHER THEODORE BEVER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6812 Connecticut Ave., Chevy Chase, Md. 20015.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 3000 Connecticut Ave., Washington, D.C, 20008.

PREPARED AT: Chillon College, Glion sur Montreux, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; M.D., 1943.

MARRIED: Josephine Jordan Morton, March 12, 1944. CHILDREN: Christopher
Theodore, Jr., April 10, 1949; Caroline Stackpole, Feb. 20, 1951, Edward
Watts, June 20, 1954; Sarah Sayward, Oct. 4, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Michael Berliner Bever, M.8.a., 37.

occuPaTION: Psychiatrist specializing in psychoanalysis, private practice;
assistant clinical professor, George Washington University Medical School;
teaching analyst, Washington Psychoanalytic Institute, member of faculty,
Washington School of Psychiatry.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1961-63, secretary, since 1963, Washington Psycho-
analytic Society; member of Council, Washington Psychiatric Society,
since 1963; trustee, Hancock Point Library, 1961-64.

MEMBER OF: American Psychoanalytic Association, American Academy of
Psychoanalysis (fellow); American Psychiatric Association; American
Orthopsychiatric Association; W.S.B. Brass (member, board of directors).

THE training of the Munich Wilhelmgymnasium still goads me to
an orderly recital. Avoiding a chronological history, I record my
assets upon our 25th Anniversary from Harvard, where I first en-
countered the liberating benefits of education. An account of liabili-
ties shall not mar this joyous occasion. Thus I list:

1) One wife. 2) Four children, two boys and two girls. 3) One
American passport generously conferred in 1943. 4) One honorable
discharge from the Army of the United States. 5) One sixty-year-
old house on Connecticut Avenue in the nation’s capital. 6) One
psychoanalytic couch. Actually I own two, with the worn-out
first one standing in the attic next to the children’s railroad layout.
7) One fire-red Chevy station wagon in which my wife transports

[99 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Cub Scouts, cinder blocks, lumber, bushes and frequent groceries.
8) One white Econoline Ford bus equipped as camper with a roof
which can be raised; it sleeps all six of us. In this, our summer
home, we have roamed to the West Coast through the Canadian
Rockies, around the Gaspé, and last summer through Mexico, as
far south as Oaxaca and home through the Colorado Rockies. It
is also my commuting car. 9) Two cameras, a dark room, and a
collection of slides and prints. I like to show these, but use of
our guest room does not require commitment to view them. 10) A
real sense of satisfaction and pleasure in the pursuit of my work
in a challenging and dynamic field of medicine; a real sense of joy
in the daily life wich my developing and stimulating family.

In the middle of my fifth decade, I feel that life gets better with
advancing years and my aged mother promises that the best is yet
to come in the calm of old age.

+ CARL BEYER

 

BORN: July 11, 1917, Cape Elizabeth, Maine. parents: Henry Gustav Beyer, ’06,
Helen Smith.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, 1940; LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia),
1947.

Marriep: Ann Swaynie, Jan. 16, 1944, Waco, Texas. cHitpren: Karen Ann,
March 16, 1945; Margaret Jane, June 25, 1948; Carla Winthrop, March 25,
1954.

pieD: Aug. 2, 1964, Falmouth, Mass.

wivow: Mrs. Carl Beyer, Belfield Road, Cape Elizabeth, Maine.

WHILE an undergraduate Beyer was a member of the Glee Club,
Hasty Pudding-Institute of 1770, Phoenix-SK Club and Leverett

[ 100 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

House squash team and crew. His studies at law school were inter-
rupted by three years’ service in the Army as a B-26 pilot during
World War Il. A practising attorney in Maine, he was a member
of the firm of Chapman, Beyer, Nixon and Earles, and subsequently
the law firm of Shur, Sawyer and Beyer. From 1957 to 1959 he
served as state representative in the Maine Legislature, representing
Cape Elizabeth, and was elected a selectman of Cape Elizabeth in
1947, serving nine years. He had been a trust officer of the Canal
National Bank, a trustee of Waynflete School, a public administrator
for Cumberland County and treasurer of the Portland Chamber of
Commerce. He was employed by the Boston Safety Deposit
Company.

Beyer died of injuries in an automobile accident and was survived
by his wife and children.

WILLIAM PENDRY BIDELMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1211 Snyder, Ann Arbor, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Astronomy Dept. University of Michigan, Ann Arbor, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Grand Forks, N. Dak.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: S.B., magna cum laude, 1940; PH.D. (Univ.
of Chicago), 1943.

MARRIED: Verna P. Shirk, June 19, 1940, CHILDREN: Lana Louise, April 2, 19445
Linda Elizabeth, April 14, 1947; Billie Jean, March 29, 1950; Barbara Jo,
April 18, 1953.

cccuPATION: Professor of astronomy, University of Michigan.

OFFICES HELD: Editor, Publications of the Astronomical Soctety of the Pacific,
1956-61; member, board of directors, Astronomical Society of the Pacific,
1957-61; councilor, American Astronomical Society, 1959-62; president,
International Astronomical Union Commission No. 45, since 1964; member,
Advisory Panel for Astronomy, National Science Foundation, 1959-62.

[ 101 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

MEMBER OF: American Astronomical Society; International Astronomical Union;
Astronomical Society of the Pacific; Ann Arbor Country Club; Phi Beta
Kappa,

punticarions: Many articles in Astrophysical Journal, Publications of the
Astronomical Society of the Pacific, etc., including, “A Spectroscopic
Study of the Region of the Double Cluster in Perseus,” Astrophysical
Journal, 1943; “Catalogue and Bibliography of Emission-Line Stars of
Types Later than B,” Astrophysical Journal Supplement No. 7, 1954.

AFTER spending the summer of 1940 at Harvard, my wife and I
took up residence in Williams Bay, Wisconsin, site of the Astronomy
Department (and Yerkes Observatory) of the University of Chicago,
where after three busy years I succeeded in acquiring my Ph.D. in
astronomy. The years 1943-45 were spent at the Ballistic Research
Laboratory in Aberdeen, Maryland, in civilian status. At the end
of the war I was fortunate enough to get appointed to the Yerkes
staff where I remained for eight sometimes turbulent years. Drawn
by greener pastures I joined the staff of the Lick Observatory of
the University of California in 1953, and remained there until 1962.
The lack of opportunity to teach and the slight contact with uni-
versity affairs led me to leave the Lick Observatory and come to
the University of Michigan where for the first time in my academic
career I have lived near a college campus and had contact with
undergraduate students. I am very happy here.

It has been my good fortune always to be associated with great
universities and with fine, and in some cases brilliant, people. Pro-
fessionally, I could not have asked for more. My wife and four
delightful daughters have, not without protest, followed my pro-
fessional wanderings, and have learned to adjust to them. Two of
our girls are now undergraduates at Michigan, and if they do not
profit by this there is no hope for them. It is doubtful that any of
my children will follow in my footsteps; I hope they will accom-
plish more than I.

Politically, I am a Romney Republican, [ admire sincerity and
honesty in politics and business, as well as on the social scene. We
are Presbyterians, proud of our faith and of the representatives of
our church. We belong, intentionally, to a new, small church, not
to a large one. Socially, we don’t amount to much. Financially,
the same.

When I was young my first ambition was to be an astronomer,
and a second was to be a journalist. As editor of the Publications of
the Astronomical Society of the Pacific for five years, I had my

[ 102 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

fill of the latter. Astronomy provides ample opportunity for travel
to scientific meetings and to other institutions. If I had to choose
a profession over again I’d make the same choice.

+ RAYMOND JEROME BIETH, JR.

 

BORN: July 5, 1918, New London, Conn, parents: Raymond Jerome Bieth,
Dorothea Keller.

PREPARED AT: Bulkeley High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DERGEE: A.B., cum laude, 1940.

MaRRIED: Ruby M. Hudson, Oct. 17, 1953, Hartford, Conn.

piep: Aug. 21, 1964, Hartford, Conn.

wwow: Mrs. Raymond J. Bieth, Jr., North East Road, Farmington, Conn.

AFTER graduation Bieth entered the industrial engineering field
and. was associated with various manufacturing companies until
forming his own company, Trumbull-Bieth Manufacturing Com-
pany in Stonington, Connecticut, of which he was president until
illness forced him to sell the business in 1962. He also did part-time
teaching, serving as an instructor at Hillyer College, the University
of Connecticut and Teachers College of Connecticut, now Central
Connecticut State College. He was past president of the Hartford
Chapter of the Society for the Advancement of Management. He

was survived by his wife.

[ 103 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

GEORGE LIVERMORE BILLMAN

 

HOME Avpress: 110 Church St., Winchester, Mass.

orFice appress: Winchester Cooperative Bank, 19 Church St.
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B,, 1940.

marrigo: Georgia Aurell, Oct. 21, 1941 (divorced 1953); Genieva Manning
Roop, July 14, 1956. cHitpren: Anne, Dec. t, 1942; William R. Roop, 3d,
April 12, 1945; Mark, July 14, 1946; Lyn C,, May 27, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Carl Billman, '35, a.M., '36.

occupation: Savings and Loan—treasurer and executive officer, Winchester
Cooperative Bank.

OFFICES HELD: President, Boston Chapter, American Savings & Loan Institute,
1950-51; member, board of directors, Massachusetts Cooperative Bank
League, 1962-64; member, board of trustees, Massachusetts Cooperative
Bank League Retirement Fund, 1963-66; treasurer, 1956-60, secretary,
1960-64, Winchester Rotary Club; treasurer, Winning Home, since 1956,

Home for Aged People in Winchester, since 1963; Town Meeting Mem-
ber, Winchester, 1951-61.

, Winchester,

COUNTRY banking, and very pleasant it is, keeps me busy in the
world of everyday work, encouraging people to save money in my
shop and lending these funds to people who want to become home-
owners.

My wife has done a remarkable job of bringing two families to-
gether, no easy task you will admit. Three of the children are well
on the way to adult independence, and the fourth one is not far
behind. It looks as though each one will handle it pretty well.

We travel some, camp a lot in the good weather, and have run
the gamut of school organization committees, etc. Our main
interests are the theatre, golf, swimming and sunbathing. Oh, yes,
and at the current time (late forties), we are taking figure skating

[ 104 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

lessons and having a ball. We are looking forward to grandchildren
and a retirement which includes lots of far wide travel and meeting
and getting to know the people in the countries where we stay.

SAMUEL SHAW BINNIAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4237 85th, S.E., Mercer Island, Wash.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Binnian & Ingman, 830 Central Bldg., Seattle, Wash.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; LL.B. 1950.

MARRIED: Susan Williams, July 9, 1949 (died April 14, 1961); Betty Fox Luther,
Aug. 30, 1963 (annulled 1964). cHiLpReN: William Henry, May 4, 1951;
Elizabeth Shaw, April 21, 1953; Anne Mansfield, Feb. 26, 1955; Emily
Faulkner, May 11, 1959.

' HARVARD BROTHER: William Binnian, ’43.

OCCUPATION: Attorney-at-law.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant commander, USNR; secretary, Mercer Island Co-
operative Water Association; secretary, president, East Shore Unitarian
Church; treasurer, president, Harvard Club of Seattle and Western Wash-
ington; chairman, Outdoor Recreation Committee, Seattle Chamber of
Commerce; secretary, Harvard Law School Association of Washington
and British Columbia.

MEMBER OF: American, Washington State and Seattle Bar Associations; Seattle
Chamber of Commerce; Emmanuel Church (Episcopal), Mercer Island;

Beach Club.

IN 1940, I entered the U.S. Naval Reserve as a volunteer apprentice
seaman and in 1946 I was released as a lieutenant commander. I
served in the Atlantic, Pacific and Asiatic theatres with four and a
half years’ sea duty. Tours of duty included: reserve midshipman
at Annapolis, Maryland; communications watch officer, staff, Com-
mander Carriers Atlantic Fleet; communications, watch and division
officer on the 2100-ton destroyer Cony in the Solomons; convoy

[ 105 ]

Sd

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

duty in the Atlantic and Caribbean, where I commanded corvettes
and acted as escort commander; commanding officer of a patrol
class escort in the Philippines and Korea. These days and nights were
lively and dull alternatively, informative, and involved lots of travel
and hard work.

After recuperation, taking a semester at the School of Advanced
International Studies (now affiliated with Johns Hopkins) and en-
gaging in various employment, I entered Harvard Law School on
the G.I. Bill in 1947 and duly emerged in 1950 with an LL.B. I
then moved to the state of Washington.

For a year or two I worked in title insurance companies in Seattle
and qualified as a real estate title examiner. On admission to the
Washington State bar in 1951, I entered solo general law practice,
supplemented by running titles at night, principally those of the
San Juan Islands. Almost my first case was to collect twenty-five
dollars for a Canadian attorney — results came from the judgment
sale of a $25,000 home. My most interesting case involved the
partial collection of $34,000 for a firm of Florentine printers from
a Seattle defendant. My best fee was a week’s loan of a cabin
cruiser for about two hours work. I have handled a great variety of
work and am now placing emphasis on real property problems.

My domestic affairs have been somewhat involved. I have owned
a home since 1951 (actually two different ones) on Mercer Island.
I fathered four fine children all of whom are well and happy. I
engaged in the usual community affairs and lived the full life of the
suburbanite until 1961. Although my wife, Susan, suffered from
chronic intermittent illness, her death in an auto collision in 1961
left me somewhat unprepared to raise the four children then ranging
from ten years to twenty-three months. The struggle of raising
children without a mother was followed by a difficult marriage
recently terminated. However, the situation continues to improve
and next year the youngest child starts school. Fortunately, there
is a lot of good future ahead.

In addition to the joys of camping, boating, swimming and house
construction, our family has now taken up skiing. I was surprised
when I fitted into my pre-World War II pants — the fit was perfect,
but the style suited the Gay Nineties —so I had to modernize. The
great outdoors composes most of the Pacific Northwest area and
I know our family will make the most of it. Now, all we need is

a new young wife to go with this healthy combination.

[ 106 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BENJAMIN LEE BIRD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1680 31st St.. N.W., Washington, D.C. 20007.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Office of the General Counsel, Dept. of the Navy, Washington
25, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., #agna cum laude, 1940; LL.B., 1948.

MARRIED: Diana L. Washbon, Aug. 7, 1948. CHILDREN: Christopher Lee, July 28,
1950; Stephanie Coldwell, July 11, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Jackson Bird, 38; Frederic Higginson Bird, ’44.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; associate counsel, Bureau of Naval Weapons, Depart-
ment of the Navy

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Langley School, 1954-56, chairman, Fairfax-Falls
Church Health & Welfare Council, 1961-63; member, Fairfax County
Housing Hygiene Appeals Board, 1962-64; chairman, Fairfax County Citi-

* zens’ Committee for Adequate Housing, 1963-64; trustee, Negro Student

Fund, 1964; member, Budget Steering Committee, Health & Welfare
Council of the Washington Metropolitan Area, 1958-64.

MEMBER OF: Federal Bar Association, National Lawyers Club.

FOR sixteen years I’ve been practising law with the government
in a number of different capacities, but always in the field of
business law. While there are no doubt many drawbacks in this
kind of work, I have been pleased with its public nature and the
large measure of objectivity and independence of judgment one can
bring to it.

My family includes a wife and two children —a son aged four-
teen and a daughter ten. How can I describe my family, except to
say that it has brought me the greatest and most lasting satisfaction
of my life. And the experience of watching my children grow from
little blobs of protoplasm into persons has been fundamental i in terms

of human knowledge.
We travel from time to time, when we can afford to. To Italy

[ 107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

and Greece, sparked by my study of the classics at college. To
Mexico and Egypt in pursuit of a generalized interest in archaeology.

My interests include sailing, hunting, gardening, the outdoors in
general and, lately, a little photography. I’m not any more social
than ever, I suppose, but since my arrival in the Washington area,
I've tried in various ways to help redress the wrongs we have
visited on Negroes for generations.

In politics, 1 vote Democratic except when the Byrd machine is
involved.

WILLIAM TOWNLEY BIXLER

    

HOME abpress: 1846 Halekoa Drive, Honolulu, Hawaii.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1941. DEGREE: A.B., 1940(41).

MARRIED: Janet Edith McCloud, May 26, 1947, cHILDREN: William Townley,
Jr, and Richard McCloud (twins), Sept. 25, 1948; Cristian Michael (died
July, 1951) and Robert Telfair (twins), March 11, 1950.

occupation: U.S. Army, Retired.

LIKE most of the members of our Class, I entered the armed forces
(Army) shortly after graduation. Unlike most of them, however, I
elected to make military life a career. My Harvard education proved
to be most helpful in my field of specialization, and I am appreciat-
ing it more and more as I enter retired life. I am now enjoying my-

self with my family in Hawaii, and experimenting with a second
career. ‘

[ 108 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MELVIN BERTRAM BLACK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3370 Washington St., San Francisco 18, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Luke’s Hospital, San Francisco 10, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1940; M.D., 1943.

MarrieD: Steffi Ingersoll, Aug. 9, 1946. CHILDREN: Erica Charlotte, Sept. 20,
1947; James Robert, Nov. 21, 1949; Kate Esther, Aug. 26, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Physician; pathologist, St. Luke’s Hospital, San Francisco.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Pathologists and Bacteriologists; American
Society of Clinical Pathologists, College of American Pathologists, New
York Academy of Sciences; American Association for the Advancement of

Science.

IT AM now officially one of the balding portly senior citizens who
permeated Cambridge as we celebrated our graduation. ‘These
twenty-five years have given me neither fortune nor renown, but
I have acquired a family, a home and a livelihood.

As my seventeen-year-old daughter fills out applications for
college entrance she regards me quizzically as she reaches the line
“Father’s occupation.” She wonders why it could not have been
astrophysicist or biostatistician or anesthesiologist rather than path-
ologist. More often than not she follows my example (in filling out
driver’s license forms) and writes resolutely “physician.” It matters
not that pathologists write the corporeal obituaries of much of the
population or that the whispered names of dread diseases are first
pronounced by the pathologist to the attending physician.

The inevitable stocktaking of the fifth decade has demonstrated a
consistent pattern of Jate maturing in my life. When others give up
youthful activities, I plunge into them. During the past ten years |
have taken up skiing, tennis and the cello. I am about to start a
vigorous course in speed reading, and plan to investigate tape

[ 109 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

recorders as soon as [ have built up a complete library of L. P.
records, This “buy when others sell” policy has not worked to my
remarkable advantage in the investment of capital, Wall Street dicta
to the contrary.

This is the opportunity to emphasize the positive and there is much
of that: 1) a household, with vivacious wife, three healthy children
and one shedding Dalmatian hound; 2) a daily routine at the hospital
in the practice of laboratory medicine in consultation with devoted
hard-working physicians; 3) a modicum of teaching medical students
at Stanford University Medical School and of residents and interns;
4) a share of committee work in and out of the hospital environment;
5) professional meetings, local and other.

The routine is relieved by travel and by occasional weekends of
skiing or other pleasures. There is a weekly evening of performance
of Beethoven or Schubert piano trios by the “Jackson Street Cham-
ber of Horrors.” I have the proud distinction of being the cellist of
this group. Fortunately the ears of the amateur respond to his own
level of performance in a totally different manner from their reponse
to professionals.

This comfortable life is pleasant and full of rewards. It also has
its share of frustration and forebodings (memories of job). ‘The
spectre of computer medicine and automated laboratories is haunt-
ing. The prospect of print-out transistorized diagnoses and the
actuality of similarly mechanized procedures in clinical chemistry.
bring me to the cross-roads. One way would be to plan an early
retirement from electronic medicine in order to spend the rest of my
life playing the cello badly. But I would rather fight on and be a
senior citizen fit for the computer age, however longingly the eyes
look back to pre-Sputnik days.

{ 110]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWIN ALSTON BLACKWELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1822 Hanford Rd., Baltimore, Md. 21206,

OFFICE ADpRESS: Industrial Engineering Dept., Bethlehem Steel Corp., Sparrows
Point, Md, 21219.

PREPARED AT: Manhasset High School, Manhasset, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

marriED: Mary Bates, Feb. 9, 1946 (divorced 1961); Theresa Wrzesinski, Nov.
22, 1961. CHILD: Stephen Devol, Dec. 8, 1947.

occuPaATION: Industrial analyst, Industrial Engineering Department, Sparrows
Point Plant, Bethlehem Steel Corporation, since 1945.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1958, treasurer, 1963, 1964, 1965, Kenwood Civic Asso-
ciation.

MEMBER OF: Engineers Club of Sparrows Point; Sparrows Point Country Club;
Kenwood Civic Association.

GRAHAM BURT BLAINE, JR.

pore

  

HOME apprESs: 72 Sparks St., Cambridge 38, Mass.
OFFICE AppRrEss: 75 Mt. Auburn St., Cambridge 38, Mass.
PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.

[ 111 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940
q

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B. 1940; M.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1943-
MarRIED: Patricia Smallwood, Aug. 5, 1944. cHttpren: Christine Carson, July
8, 1945; Victoria Winthrop, Jan. 22, 1949; Lily Hunter, Sept. 22, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harrison Tweed Blaine, °42 (deceased).

occupation: Chief of psychiatry, Harvard University Health Services.

oFFices HELD: Consultant on psychiatry, Williams College, 1951-53; associate
director, Harvard University Project on Religion and Mental Health,
1957-58; assistant psychiatrist, Adolescent Unit, Children’s Medical Center,
since 1955; assistant in psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, since 1957;
member, board of directors, Buckingham School, 1957-63, Family Society
of Cambridge, since 1963, Hurricane Island Outward Bound School, since
1964; chairman, Mental Health Section, American College Health Asso-
ciation; member, Alumni Council, St. George’s School, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Boston; Badminton & Tennis
Club; Cambridge Tennis Club; Somerset Club; American Psychiatric As-
sociation, American College Health Association.

puBLicaTions: “Short Term Psychotherapy with College Students,” New Eng-
land Journal of Medicine, “Divided Loyalties: The College Therapist’s
Responsibility to the Student, the University, and the Parents,” American
Journal of Orthopsychiatry; “The Children of Divorce,” Atlantic Monthly;
Emotional Problems of the Student, editor and co-author, Appleton-Cen-
tury-Crofts, 1961; Patience and Fortitude; The Parents’ Guide to Adoles-
cence, Atlantic-Little Brown, 1962, and other papers.

CANDID free association to twenty-five years:
career: A dedication to medicine since age of eight — faltered
in college but then pursued — grim first two years in medical school
then fascinating two years plus magnificent thrill of internship and
then two Army years in Georgia, California, Mississippi and Gover-
nor’s Island, New York, with no overseas duty and luckily no
bullets or bombs coming my way — then three tough rewarding gen-
eral practice years in South Kent, Connecticut, delivering babies,
extracting appendices, epidemics, night calls and finally a somewhat
cowardly but, in the end, wise decision to specialize and back to
Bellevue and residency all over again and burgeoning interest in|
college health with continued residency at Riggs in Stockbridge
including care of Williams students, then an interim in New York
City, hectic, prosperous, but unrewarding, followed by return to
Harvard with hard work, opportunity to write, chance to think,
plenty of communication with colleagues, and an exciting com-
munity — student problems and private practice provide challenge,
and bring healthy satisfaction, writing and research bring the great-
est rewards of all — producing a book as thrilling as producing a
child.

FAMILY: Skiing, artistic bride found in Greenwich Village while

[112]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an intern — exciting companion with interests of her own — pho-
tography — interior decoration, antiques, running a shop (110 Mt.
Vernon Street, Boston [plug]), three daughters, redhead, platinum
blonde, mouse blonde, with matching personalities, fiery, flirtatious
and sensitive —a well behaved trio and good company.

THE WORLD AT LARGE: First a time of deprivation and tragedy
followed by a period of affluence and optimism, the latter more
frightening — children born into a world of plenty with little
challenge and no hardship will find it difficult to face adversity
when and if it comes — population explosion the most frightening
fact of today —either solution is grim — overcrowding, poverty,
squalor or else elimination of many by what? famine, flood or war?
The present is pleasant but can only be so because we are so easily
able to ignore the future.

NICHOLAS BLATCHFORD

  
 

abe eg EDS sient G2 i i wile cob

 

HOME ADDRESS: 231 Cedar Lane, Fairfax, Va.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Washington Daily News, 1013 13th St., N.W., Washington, D.C.
PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, IIl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarrieD: Lois Greeley, June 3, 1944. CHILDREN: Anne Hathaway, March 26,
1945; Kim Copeland, Sept. 12, 1947; Nicholas Mark, March 1, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Nathaniel Hopkins Blatchford, 3d, 736.
OCCUPATION: Assistant managing editor, JVashington Daily News.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, D.C. Bureau of Rehabilitation, since

1963; member, executive board, Washington Newspaper Guild, 1946-19473
member, Public Relations Committee, Health and Welfare Council, 1960-63.
MEMBER OF: National Press Club, 1960-64.

AFTER graduation, I joined up with the IPashington Daily News as

a copyboy at fifteen dollars a week, an astonishing sum, it seemed to

[ 113 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

me, who knew very little about anything. My luck held, however,
and I was soon working as reporter and feature writer — halcyon
days interrupted by the draft.

I was shipped to Newfoundland with a Coast Artillery outfit and
spent three and one-half years on that damp, desolate, delightful
island. While home on furlough, I began to notice a lovely girl
whom I'd known all my life, and we were married, and one thing led
to another, and we now have a daughter at Vassar, another hope-
fully going to college soon and a fifteen-year-old son. We spend
our summer vacations in the wild lake country of Northern Wis-
consin.

I continued to work for the News —as reporter for several years,
assistant city editor, city editor and, since 1958, assistant managing
editor. I help put out the paper, I try to keep things moving, I write
editorials and I listen to the problems of countless photographers,
reporters, columnists and readers and lend them a hand when I can.
Thanks to my colleagues, the News continues to grow in size and
reputation.

I don’t seem to belong to anything, for crying out loud, nor have
I accomplished much, But I have managed to hold onto one job
and one family, and both have been the source of much excitement
and delight. .

For the past several years I have been working with juvenile
delinquents at the Federal Bureau of Prisons’ National ‘Training
School under a program which provides a young desperado with an
outside friend. Of the six boys I have sponsored, five are now home
on parole, in various stages of repair but showing some promise of
“making it.” They still write regularly from wherever they’ve gone,
and these surprising friendships, from which I have learned much

more than they, show no signs of diminishing. It has been an im-
mensely interesting and rewarding exploration of a strange, forlorn
and wonderful world.

In matters of religion I remain an agnostic, I guess, and in politics
liberal. If I have learned anything in these twenty-five years, it is
that truth is seldom to be found where we would like to think it is,
and that man could do worse than follow his far-ranging heart.

[114]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

INGRAM BLOCH

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Vanderbilt University, Physics Dept., Nashville, Tenn.

HENRY WINTHROP BLOOD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 43 Marlboro Drive, Pittsfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Electric Co., 1 River Rd., Schenectady, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B., 1940(41).

Marrigp: Barbara Louise Filbin, Sept. 6, 1941. CHILDREN: Judith Anne, Nov. 15,
1942 (m. Ralph A. Hewes, June 16, 1962); Joan Elizabeth, Oct. 25, 19463
Jacqueline Louise, April 9, 1950. .

occupation: Systems designer, internal automation operation, General Electric
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Deacon, First Church of Christ in Pittsfield, since 1963; president,
Harvard Club of the Berkshires, since 1962; study group chairman, high
school evaluation, Pittsfield Citizens’ Council for Public Schools, 1961-62;
lieutenant, USNR (retired).

MEMBER oF: Institute of Management Sciences; Appalachian Mountain Club;
Stanley Club, Pittsfield.

[115 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

IN my first twenty-five years as a Harvard alumnus, I have con-
fined myself to one employ er and one wife. Both career and
marriage have been challenging and rewarding.

Since August, 1940, W ith nwo years out for naval service, I have
been with the General Electric Company. Starting at Lynn, Massa-
chusetts, I moved to Schenectady, New York, in 1949, and from
there to Pittsfield, Alassachusetts, in 1952. Since the fall of 1963,
although still living in Pittsfield, I have been working out of an
office in Schenectady. Prior to my present assignment, I had served
m an even dozen positions, from trainee to manager, in manufactur-

g, finance, systems and procedures and operations research.

nae a result of this varied background, I am now working with a
group engaged in designing and implementing integrated business
information systems for General Electric operating components and
external customers in the United States and Canada. Although this
work, which involves keeping up with the dynamic advances in the
field of computers and other information processing and trans-
mission equipment, is interesting and stimulating, it has the liability
of requiring me to be away from home and my family more than
half the time.

In nearly twenty-four years of marriage, we have been blessed
with three wonderful daughters, all different. Our eldest, Judy,
after two years of combining her studies at the University of Illinois
with the role of wife, has decided to provide us with a grandchild
(expected in January ’65). Her husband is due to receive his doc-
torate in physics this year. Number two daughter, Joannie, gradu-
ated from Northfield in 1964 and is now at Wheaton College in
Norton, Massachusetts. Our ninth-grade daughter, Jackie, seems to
enjoy being the only child at home.

For some reason, the girls’ growing up has not made me feel old.
For recreation, I have recently added boating and water-skiing to
my old summer pastime of hiking. Also, after a lapse since college
days, 1 have returned to skiing as a winter diversion and in three
years have become an absolute “nut” about it.

During the last few years, the field of education, particularly in
the public schools, has been one of my major outside interests. In
our last municipal election, I participated actively in the successful
campaign for one of our school committee candidates, I have long
been active in church affairs and am currently serving as deacon of
the First Church in Pittsfield (Congregational). Until prevented

by my present job from spending the necessary time, I was involved

{ 116]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in an attempt to resurrect the Harvard Club of the Berkshires, a
dormant, but hopefully not dead, organization of which I became
president by default. .

I am not pessimistic about national and world affairs, but I believe
that we must learn, individually and collectively, to be our brother’s
keeper without insisting on being his master. That we succeed in
learning and practising this is equally important at local, national
and international levels.

JOSEPH BLOOM

 

HOME ADDRESS: 82 Sharpe Rd., Newton, Mass. 02159.

OFFICE ADDRESS: A. Sandler Co., Needham Heights, Mass. 02194.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cu? laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Inez Sandler, Dec. 21, 1941. CHILDREN: Susan Linda, March 26, 1946;
Ronni Merle, May 3, 1948; Jack Sandler, March 20, 1957.

eccuPATION: Shoe manufacturer; president, responsibility for direction of people
who do things.

OFFICES HELD: Currently, vice-president and member, executive committee, Na-
tional Shoe Manufacturers Association; president, New England Shoe and
Leather Association; trustee, National Shoe Institute, 210 Associates, Com-
bined Jewish Philanthropies; director, Massachusetts Foundation, Busi-
ness Men’s Council, CJP; member, board of governors, Belmont Country
Club.

MEMBER OF: Most of the good ones — from ADA to ZOA.

TWENTY-FIVE years — after becoming a member of the Society
of Educated Men —and knowing so much less now than I knew
then! Never mind the hair, the thin waistline, the ability to eat more
and drink less and sleep less — where has the youthful flush of con-
fidence and anticipation gone?

[117 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

I have been able to accomplish most of the things I wanted to do
twenty-five years ago—and I find them less than exciting, What
do I look forward to now? I have three healthy children, one a
college freshman at Antioch, I have enough money to do what |
can justify, an interested and interesting wife to share the fun and
futility, a position of reasonable status in the community and the
industry (honestly earned) and a great feeling of empathy for man-
kind still principally unfulfilled.

Most of the realization of my situation developed in the last sixty
days as I stared at my bare Class Report and watched the parade
of cute postcards from Peter Pratt. I suppose I avoided it for this
length of time because I didn’t want to take stock. My business
career is no different from those of most of you who have been suc-
cessful. The biggest problem is communications (not only in busi-
ness) — getting to understand what people are really saying and
having them understand what you want — especially dificult when
you frequently don’t know yourself. The fun in business is getting
recognition for your company —its product and people — and
being able to reward appreciating associates. The pain—and it’s
all too frequent —is having to be apologetic for a product or a
pay rate.

Another good thing about succes is $—to give away. There’s
more pleasure in giving than spending — What did I say? But my
most rewarding efforts today are in community affairs, industry
activities, charitable and religious benefactions. They all take time
— but they are worth it. No one ever got back less than he put
in — the only sure winner in life.

I still dream of going back to school and/or into politics. All I
have to do is find some one who wants to buy me out and I will
be on my way — it says here — Where???

{118 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NORMAN DAVID BLOTNER

 

 

4E ADDRESS: 140 Overlook Rd., New Rochelle, N-Y.

cE AppREsS: Lane Bryant, Inc., 465 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.

4RED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.

; IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1940, LLB. 1943(47).

Ep: Helen I. Whitman, Aug. 13, 1954.

ATION: Assistant to the president, vice-president for real estate, assistant
rporate secretary, Lane Bryant, Inc., women’s apparel chain. General
ninistration, real estate and legal matters.

t oF: Association of the Bar of the City of New York, New Rochelle
mis Club.

SSORY look at the two photographs accompanying this

vill surely show that something has been happening over
twenty-five years. The forehead is higher, the temples

e face takes on lines. But, fortunately, nature compensates,

mer man becomes more philosophical. But that fortieth

yas a shocker, wasn’t 1t? Took a lot of philosophy just

‘h that one! |

s went by too fast. Harvard Law School after gradua-
1g lacrosse and swimming at the College, and then tro
1 as ensign, out as licutenant-commander, with tine on

aval transportation, and a special assignment in Europe

hh

Ww School after the war and headed for New Lork
¢ law and then to jotn Lane Bryant, Ine, one of the

r active bachelor’s life wn New York City tat ate
¢T set Helen, married, anc settled Lown, We “tied

moved to au old Tudor house ty Westelestet We

a |

ed

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

make believe that we were in the country and to make room for a
king-size German Shepherd dog.

Life now seems to be active and comfortable at the same time.
Highly competitive business brings the thrills that athletics did
twenty-five vears ago. But the zest for sports does not fade out —
I play tennis at least | two davs a week — singles only. But after three
or four fast sets, the legs tell me that in ten or fifteen years, we may
have to switch to doubles. And the vicarious interest in all athletics
continues unabated. Serious music continues to add to the glow of
living. And, like many others, I'm sure, I can’t find enough time for
non-professional reading.

Thinking back to that unreal world of twenty-five years ago, we
reflect that Harvard was a great place to spend those four years —
probably, for us, the best place. We hope that Harvard College
continues to be — for people like us— just the right place to live
for four vears, to begin to grow up, and to begin to think. And, I
hope, to think objectively. This world is a little short on objective
thinkers and can use all that Harvard can produce.

MALCOLM DUNCAN BLUE, JR.

HOME ADpRESS: 758 Oakwood, Hamilton, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 136 N. Third St., Hamilton, Ohio.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1936, 1938-1940. DEGREE: AB., 1940.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Johnston, March, 1943. CHILDREN: Malcolm Duncan, 3d,
Feb. 22, 1944; David.

OccuPATION: Insurance — vice-president.
OFFICES HELD: Director, American Cancer Society.
MEMBER OF: Hamilton City Club; Elks’ Golf and Country Club.

FOLLOWING graduation I went to work for the Maryland
Casualty Insurance Company in Baltimore. In May, 1941, I was
called into the Navy. After the usual indoctrination courses and
local duties, assignment to a ship came and the rest of the war was
spent assigned to the Pacific Fleet.

Having seen California during this time we were taken with the
climate, easy living, etc., and lived there from 1946 to 1962. We
presently live in Hamilton, Ohio, and although we miss the year-
round even climate of California, nevertheless, the change of seasons
and the beautiful green springtime compensate in part for it.

[ am employed as vice-president of the Ohio Casualty Insurance

[ 120 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Company, Ohio Life Insurance Company, Ohio Security Insurance
Company and West American Insurance Company — don’t ask how
that one got in.

Our two sons still live in California. David is in the wholesale meat
business at Reading, California. Duncan is a senior at the University
of California.

Hobbies — golf and recently, swimming, and golf, and golf... .

JOHN JULIUS BOESEL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 721 Forest Ave., Evanston, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: A. C. Nielsen Co., 2101 Howard St., Chicago, Nl.

PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N.Y.

’ YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREE: A.B. (Oberlin Coll.), 1940.

MarrieD: Mary Hughes (Watts), Aug. 16, 1952. CHILDREN: Edward Shannon
Watts, Aug. 6, 1946; George Fairfield Watts, Nov. 17, 1947; James Kilim,
Dec. 7, 1953.

OccuPATION: Vice-president, A. C. Nielsen Company, advertising research.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, finance chairman, Evanston Unitarian Church.

ASSOCIATED with Kenyon & Eckhardt, 1940-42. USAAF

(ETO), 1942-45. With A. C. Nielsen Company, since 1946.

My wife, Mary Hughes, is the widow of George F. Watts,

Harvard ’30.

[ rar ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

WILLIAM THOMAS BOLGER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 130 Passaic Ave., Chatham, N.]J.

OFFicE apprEss: Metals Disintegrating Corp., Box 290, Elizabeth, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Gloucester High School, Gloucester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Virginia Hatch, March 30, 1947. CHILDREN: William Augustine, Feb.
14, 1948; Rebecca, July 24, 1950, Thomas A., April 12, 1952; Constance,
Aug. 16, 1955; Benjamin Walker, Jan. 29, 1965.

occupation: Metal powders engineer, R & D.

“WRITE for the ages” forsooth, these are the short and similar
annals of the relatively poor. To begin at Commencement — the
dozen of us taking a Wanderjabr in Alaska dwindled to Walter
Jenkins and me in Mexico for two weeks. I settled down in Glouces-
ter but then jumped up again for four years in the Navy. Never
lost a ship. Then Frank White, ’39, lured me out West to Ohio to
help sail his boat and fill in at something called powder metallurgy.
He wouldn’t take girls as regular crew, so Ginny and I bought a
lovely old farmhouse to restore. We lived in it, too. After the
powder was all filled in I went over to Goodyear Aircraft to help
plan a plant to build aeroplanes and dirigible balloons during the
next war (really!). We started three children, 2000 pine trees and
a boat, then unloaded the life-work (the Restoration, that is) onto
another romantic couple and moved here — into a lovely Tudor
(“older”) house in a hell of an expensive school district. We are
still here, with 4.9 children, which shows I can hold a job for ten
years, and you're only as old as you feel — or not even that, some-
times. I must say, though, in spite of Mr. G. Williams’ cartoon,
that I am surprised that you are holding the 25th so soon.

[ 122 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PARKE N. BOSSART

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 89-48 Lefferts Blvd., Richmond Hill 18, N.Y.

RICHARD JOHN BOTH

 

HOME apprEss: 4 Log Church Rd., Wilmington, Del. 19807.

OFFICE apprEss: Hercules Powder Co., Explosives & Chemical Propulsion Dept.
Wilmington, Del.

PREPARED AT; Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarrigpD: Mary Blair Bunting, May 9, 1942. CHILDREN: Mary Blair, Dec. 17,
1943; Richard John, Jr., Nov. 21, 1946; Stephen Horner, May 4, 1949.
OccUPATION: Assistant general manager, Explosives & Chemical Propulsion De-

partment, Hercules Powder Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, Christ Church, Christiana Hundred; director, Dela-
ware Curative Workshop, Wilmington Council of Churches; member,
Parents Advisory Committee, Sweet Briar College.

MEMBER OF: Wilmington Country Club; Association of the U.S. Army.

THE past twenty-five years have been most rewarding. Let us all

[123]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

pray that the next twenty-five years will be as rewarding to our
families, as well as our country.

THOMAS ANTHONY BOULGER

 

HOME Appress: R.R. 1, Chillicothe, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Foulke Block, Chillicothe, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Bexley High School, Bexley, Ohio,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LL.B. (Ohio State Univ.), 1947.

MarrieD: Jean Ann Turner, Aug. 4, 1945. CHILDREN: Mary C,, May 7, 1946;
James T., Jan. 7, 1950; Ann G., April 25, 1951; Katheryn E., Nov. 26, 1952,
John S., Dec. 26, 1955; Rebecca J., Feb. 23, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Charles Boulger, ‘46,

occupation: Lawyer.

MEMBER OF: American, Ohio State and Ross County Bar Associations, Knights
of Columbus; Chillicothe Country Club.

ON February 19, 1942, I was drafted into the Army and served with
the Corps of Military Police in the United States, except for a brief
period of about a month or so with a Military Government Unit in
Korea. Left service January 29, 1946, as a first lieutenant. Com-
pleted legal education which I had started prior to war at Ohio State
University in June of 1947. Have been in the private practice of law
ever since and am presently practising law in Chillicothe, Ross
County, Ohio.

With respect to world and national problems, I am a reluctant
liberal with conservative leanings and as a result of this crossfire in
personality am pretty much of a cynic.

[ 124]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANCIS STANLEY BOURNE

 

ME ADDRESS: 40 Sundar Nagar, New Delhi, India.

cE ADDRESS: American Embassy (USIS), APO 675, New York, NN.

*ARED AT: Fieldston School, Riverdale, N.Y.

S IN COLLEGE: 1936-1040. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; A.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1955-

ep: Lucie Jean Whitehead, Sept. 21, 1954. CHILDREN: Laurence Nicholas,

uly 28, 1955; Peter Stanley, May 14, 1958.

sTION: U.S, Foreign Service — research officer.

HELD; Member, executive committee, UWF, AVC, district captain,
<ington Dramatic Club, 1953; member, board of directors, National Child
earch Center, since 1960; member, executive board, Indo-US, Cultural
ciation, 1961-65,

oF: American Association of Public Opinion Research; World Associa-
of Public Opinion Research; Indian Sociological Association.

Ns: “Group Influence in Marketing and Public Relations’ (a chapter
NESCO BOOK, “Some Applications on Behavioural Research’);

articles in journals.

pinion in one form or another has governed my life ever

ig Cambridge in 1941. It has provided me with a liberal

ative livelihood, a wonderful wife and the opportunity

‘ound the world a few times via our base in India, Mote.

' took me first to Princeton where | spent the entite wat-

e forties analyzing it for George Gallup's Audience Re-

te (with time out for an Air Force stint in Europe).
ore enjoyable of my Princeton bachelor years were
ng an apartment with Harvard Classmate Joe Wyant,
the Gallup organtzation for period after the wat.
nisequence of the pollsters one bad mistake (in the
lic) —the 1948 Dewey vietory prediction—\ de-

ya year later, to lewwe Princeton and poling
York and Columbia Universty s Graduate School

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

impressed with what a small world it was, we were rudely awakened
at Kanpur to the fact that it was not quite so small, as five Indians
burst into our compartment, already filled to its intended Capacity.
After momentary irritation we soon (because this was India) felt
relieved that it was only five and not twenty-five additional people
as would have inhabited a similar amount of space in a third-class
compartment.

Lest this account of twenty-five vears appear to be unduly
weighted with four years in India, the fact is that it is totally justified
in my own life view.

Finally, lest the reader detect a note of self-satisfaction, let it be
made clear that any self-congratulations that may be suggested are
not at all associated with accomplishment but entirely with the good
fortune to be in a situation where one feels the opportunity for
relatively meaningful accomplishment is unlimited. Only one’s

personal limitations, of which this writer has a very healthy share,
indeed, stand in the way.

FRANK ALDEN BOVEY, II

j
4
4

 

HOME AbpreEss: 19 Rolling Hill Drive, Morristown, N.J. 07960.
OFFICE appREss: Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., Murray Hill, N.J.
PREPARED AT: Blake School, Minneapolis, Minn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: $B. 1940; PH.D. (Univ, of Minnesota),
1948.
marrigp: Shirley Elfman, June 19, 1941. CHILDREN: Margaret Alden, May 28,
1942 (m. Frederick Sandback); Frank Alden, 3d, June 18, 1945; Victoria
Adams, Feb. 20, 1950.
HARVARD SON: Frank Alden Bovey, 3d, ’67.
HARVARD BROTHER: John Alden Bovey, Jr., °35, a.m., 738.

[ 128 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Scientist, Bell Telephone Laboratories, Inc., fundamental research
in the physics of large molecules,

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society, American Physical Society, Ameri-
can Society of Biological Chemists, American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science, Radiation Research Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Effects of lonizing Radiations on Polymers, Emulsion Polymer-
ization, co-author; The Enzymes (chapter); plus approximately sixty pub-
lished papers.

UPON graduation I began graduate studies, first at the University of
Minnesota, then at Harvard. This was interrupted by a wartime
interval (1942-45) of “essential work” making synthetic rubber in
a plant in Louisville operated by Minnesota Mining & Manufactur-
ing Company (St. Paul); I returned to the University of Minnesota
and completed work for a Ph.D. (1948) in physical chemistry under
the direction of Professor I. M. Kolthoff. His guidance and good
opinion propelled me into the scientific world with a momentum
which has lasted to this day. This is not to say that all has been
progress, serene and uninterrupted. Far from it. The career of a
scientist, even in this age of science (and even with a certain native
talent), has dry spells and wasted intervals, and these can be long
and frequent the more “dedicated” he is to pure research and the
more Practical the aims of his employer. Rare indeed is the employer
of scientists who has solved this problem, and can effectively use
the talents of this difficult and cantankerous breed. Fortunately,
two years ago I was invited to join the staff of one such employer
(Bell), possibly the only such except for the universities. All in all,
and salaries aside, the universities remain the best environment for
fundamental scientific research. Many industrial laboratories wish
this were not so, but very few have any inkling of what to do about
it, and many don’t care. But something too much of this.

As to economics: I have succeeded in making no money to speak
of, but have provided a good living and all the usual luxuries (in-
cluding the best schooling, which is no mere luxury) for my family.
I have demonstrated, at least to my own satisfaction, that a good
income can be earned while doing exactly what I most enjoy —
pure scientific investigation without the slightest practical purpose.
But as the time of retirement becomes visible (still a cloud no bigger
than a man’s hand), the present nest egg begins to look inadequate,
clearly in need of augmentation.

Politics: lifelong Democrat, not horrified by the steady trend
toward cradle-to- “grave security for all—a trend which is much
less advanced here in this country than in most of the rest of the

[129 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

world, and much less than it will be. Since I work for a huge
monopoly, allowed to exist only by a wise suspension of the prevail-
ing anti-trust philosophy, I had better make no further statements
of my views on federal control of business, etc. I need hardly add
that I regard the present Republican presidential candidate as the
greatest potential disaster since Harding. (This comment will look
very dated when this Report appears, but it can’t be helped.)

Along with the accelerating progress of science (and technology
masquerading as science) in this country, there has gone, I believe,
a steady degradation in all the arts—a serious matter. Come to
think of it, I believe this is world-wide. Where are the great com-
posers, novelists, painters of the generation? You cannot name them.
The reason, I do not know — perhaps the disastrous degradation of
the mass communications media has something to do with it. At
any rate, the corrective is education, and still more education. And
this, by an easy and natural transition, brings me back to Harvard

again. Long may she wave!

PAUL HERBERT BOWDLE

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 2340 Metairie Rd., Metairie, La.

[ 130 ]

RT
CHARLES EDWARD BOWEN

 

ADDRESS * $10 o Bellevue Rd. quan acum, Mas

ppREss: 129 Ne bur uy St.,

New Pop ory Seok, Cane, Ma

IN COLLE 1940. : » 19405 LLB. (Boston Univ.), .

Dp: Ma tha Eno s, Jun REN: Charles Edward, |r., Oct. 5
Davi vid M., April 10 “rosy, Paul Ry Oct. 27, 1938; Stephen B., Yan y

9; John A., Feb. 2 2, 1962.
BROTHER; John Flurence Bowen, '39 (deceased). .
on: Attorney; president, John Bowen Company, Inc. (building con-
ion); president and treasurer, Newbury Realty Company (nvest-
property), Newbury Loan Company (investments).
*: Wollaston Golf Club; Harvard Club.

| half-hearted attempt at law school during 1940-41, 1

1 some branch of the armed forces, which one 1 didnt
However, all branches felt | was a poor risk and declined

This left me little choice, so | went to work in the con-

siness building cantonments and war housing, with ex-

at Ayer, Massachusetts, Portland, Brunswick, Bath and
Maine, all of which occupied three to four yeats.

J an accelerated law course and admission to the bat
ith the idea of practising 90 much as Using 1 a8 3
ound, Last but by no means least came marriage ih

sequent births of the five boys sted chove wn this

nutside of reading (preferably history, bwogtaphtss,
mostly of sports, namely gol inthe warm weather,
the c d mont is Int more recently, ating Wilh

cio-poltiel tuk, Ite stat fut a

1H

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

realot for causes or crusades be they left or right, but I am very
ad to have been a classmate of John Kennedy; and being a parent

young boys, am grateful for the impact he made on our think-
ss youth by projecting the image of wholesomeness, cleancutness
—d ‘centlemantiness. Greater numbers should try harder to acquire
=ne of these good old-fashioned attributes and somehow learn that
— yrtesv and good grooming don't indicate “square”!

HERBERT GARDNER BRADLEE

     

ae SAI
r ¥ %
* o & Kaw .4 A

ME apprESS: 46 Lorena Rd., Winchester, Mass.

=FICE appress: Cambridge Trust Co. 1336 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge,
Mass. 02138.

=iPARED aT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

—tarriep: Celena Whitney Dean, July 28, 1939. CHILDREN: Reginald, 2d, Oct. 22,
1941; Eric Dean, April 18, 1943 (7, Susan Laurie Gurney); Susan Brooks,
Mav 15, 1948; Robert Gardner, March 13, 1957. GRANDCHILD: Eric Gardner
Bradice, Sept. 8, 1964.

m4azvarp sons: Reginald Bradlee, 2d, °64; Eric Dean Bradlee, ‘66.

HARVARD BROTHER: Dudley Hall Bradlee, °38.

CCLUPATIGN: Executive vice-president, commercial banking, specifics of my job
are really just policy level, but in particular, making loans.

OFEICES HELD: Member, Finance Committee, Town of Winchester, 1955-58;
member, 1958-61, chairman, 1960-61, Board of Selectmen, Town of Win-
chester; president, New England Chapter, Robert Morris Associates, 1960-
fi, director, Harvard Student Agencies, Inc., since 1957, trustee and
treasurer, Avon Home, since 1961, trustee, Cambridge YWCA, since
ifi4, trustee, Woburn YMCA, since 1954; trustee of Permanent Funds,
Winchester Unitarian Society, since 1960, vice-president and director,
Business Assisrance Corporation, trustee, Cambridgeport Savings Bank,
director, The Horn Book, Inc., Harvard Club of Fastern Massachusetts.

[ 132]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and Eastern Middlesex; Harvard Faculty
Club; Winchester Country Club, Cambridge Club.

I AM: not sure what I have contributed to the narrow world in

which I have lived since graduation, but it has been a pleasant way

of life for me.

Geographically, I have worked in Boston and Cambridge and
lived in Winchester —a narrow world, indeed, unbroken even by
war service — the Navy would not have me (eyesight, they said),
not even the draft (they didn’t explain).

Marriage has been a happy state of life for us. Celena and I are
good friends after twenty-five years, and this friendship has, we
hope, been reflected in a friendship with our children. We hope
it will extend to our grandchildren, the first of whom arrived in
September, 1964.

In my earlier clerical years in the banking business, I was not

sure that I fitted the mold. After an introduction to the foreign
department and later the credit department, I was convinced that
banking was for me. Banking in Harvard Square is perhaps not an
art, but it is a point of return — with apologies to Mr. Marquand —
for everyone you ever knew turns up there at some time or other.
Hearing Professor Schlichter’s hour-long lecture on the economic
state of affairs or Professor Galbraith’s quick comment on the Indian
state of affairs on a brief stopover in Cambridge on the way to
Washington makes one’s business life a little special.

Over the years, I have been busy with outside activities and have
learned some useful things. One of these is that I am a particularly
poor solicitor of funds for charitable, church, or school drives. I
am better at organizing these drives or serving such organizations in
an administrative capacity. Serving on the Winchester Finance
Committee was the job most thoroughly enjoyed. Serving on the
Winchester Board of Selectmen convinced me that politics had a
limited interest for me. My sympathy for irate citizens telephoning
belligerently about the lack of plowed roads in a severe blizzard
was limited. When chairman of the Board of Selectmen, we had
a particularly fine time being entertained at tea by the mayor and

Council of Winchester, England, during a holiday in that country.

One of the most rewarding of my experiences has been member-
ship on the board of directors of the Harvard Student Agencies,
Inc., formed in 1957 at the inspiration of Dean Monro, This corpora-
tion, in close cooperation with the student employment office, has
created a number of small businesses giving jobs to boys needing

[ 133 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

financial help while at Harvard, I am impressed with the quality of
the Harvard student body.

Some six vears ago we ‘took up skiing as a family sport, and my
only regret is that my skill does not match my enthusiasm. I play
golf poorly but regularly i in the off season to keep my legs in shape
for skiing. They are no ‘better muscled than when in college, which
mav explain my not being chosen for the Olympic team.

AsI grow older I find I am less sure of my convictions, except
that it 1s impossible to write one of these summaries without start-
ing every sentence with “I.” One conviction is growing — that
banking i is tending towards the same errors it made in the Twenties
which makes me slightly nervous. On the other hand, banking
has convinced me that “people are remarkably honest.

MONTGOMERY SEARS BRADLEY

 

HOME Appress: Mount Holly Road, Katonah, N.Y. 10536.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Population Reference Bureau, 1755 Massachusetts Ave., N.W.,
Washington, D.C. 20036.

PREPARED aT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937, 1938-1941. DEGREE: A.B., 1940(42).

MarRiED: Marcia Williams, May 29, 1943 (divorced 1960); Joanne Freytag,
March 14, 1965. CHILDREN: Sarah, March 12, 1947; Mary Cameron, July 24,
1948, Laura, Oct. 28, 1949; Catherine, Oct. 11, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Cameron Bradley, ’37.

occupation: Secretary, Population Reference Bureau, Inc.

orrices HELD: Staff, 1937-38, US. Senator Henry Cabot Lodge, Jr.; 1946-47,
Vandervoort & Company (New York City); assistant secretary, 1947,
Cargo Marine Trading Company (New York); president, 1947-50, Bradley,
Moseley Company (New York); associate, 1953-55, The Fund for the

Republic (New York); associate, 1955-63, Rockefeller Brothers Fund

(New York).
[ 134]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Metropolitan Club (Washington);
New York Zoological Society; U.S. Naval Institute, Grand Jurors Asso-
ciation of Westchester County, Donegal Society (Mount Joy, Pa.);
Harvard Varsity Club; Katonah Village Improvement Society (former
president, trustee, member of executive committee).

TWENTY-FIVE years does not seem to be a very long period
until one is forced to review it in detail in order to present the
salient facts to those who knew you one wife, four daughters and
two wars ago. You look for a pattern and you find a mosaic of
bits and pieces.

As happened to so many of our Class, my postgraduate training
was received in the armed forces. Fortunately, I was able to choose
the Navy as my field and destroyers as my specialty. I finished up
after five years with a consuming love of the sea, a new understand-
ing of my fellow man, an aversion to loud noises and pomposity, and
a considerable interest in making my own way.

There followed a peaceful interlude of five years devoted to rais-
ing a family and trying to fill Great Britain’s former role in foreign
trade. This ended abruptly when England devalued the pound, and,
not long thereafter, the Navy decided that it needed me more than
my then three and a half daughters did.

For about two years I devoted myself to a postdoctorate period in
advanced destroyer techniques involving sophisticated weapon sys-
tems and too much brass. Finally, someone sent the regular Navy
to sea, and I went home much to the relief of my superiors — and
my four daughters. If I learned anything from rocketry and honor
guards, it was to save my uniforms and gold braid for the next time.

The world had a different appearance when I reverted again to
civilian status, and I took a big step toward doing something con-
structive about it by moving into philanthropy and the non-profit
field. First, I went with the Fund for the Republic, an offshoot of
the Ford Foundation which was concerned with promoting and
protecting certain individual freedoms then being ignored or assailed
by various interests. After two years and the arrival of Robert
Maynard Hutchins, I felt that the Fund’s outlook K differed too much
from mine, so I moved on.

The next eight years covered a most interesting and worth-while
association with the Rockefeller Brothers Fund and with various
members of the Rockefeller family as individuals. Although my
major responsibility was conservation and the natural sciences, I
was also concerned with archaeology and art, which added to the

[135 ]

. sp snesaatirin roti

~ rceemrrtnantt *

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

daily Vv ariety. As time passed, however, my interest in population
matters grew, until I felt that I should take a more active role in
the efort to moderate the rate of population increase here and

abroad.
Finally. I left the Rockefeller organization for the Population

Reference Bureau. This is a priv ate, non-profit education organiza-
tion that gathers, analyzes and interprets factual information relating
t0 population trends and relates these facts to the world’s economic
and social problems. My first vear with the Bureau was spent in a
consultant status dealing with the reorganization of its administra-
tion and fund raising. Currently, I am secretary of the corporation
and as such am in charge of administration and fund raising. Al-
though the Bureau is located i in the Brookings complex in Wash-
ington, I spend the majority of my time in New York. If necessary,
I can reach Washington by air in only twenty minutes more than
it normally takes me to get to New ¥ ork from Katonah.

The population field is a most rewarding one. Certainly, I know
of no other where more important work is going on today, either
in the government or without. The problems posed by the world’s
burgeoning population are staggering and may soon be insurmount-
able unless people realize that they should and can do something to
limit the size of their own families.

Looking back to 1940 makes me realize how much I owe to
Harvard in terms of its having helped to mold an inquiring mind.
Harvard started a process of learning that is still continuing, al-
though it has few formal guidelines today. This is something I am
very thankful for and I hope that I can pass along some of this
attribute to my own children and to others so that it may be put
to even greater use to make this world a better place.

[136]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THORNTON FREDERICK BRADSHAW

i
}
4
;

  

HOME ADDRESS: 326 Grays Lane, Haverford, Pa.

OFFICE ApprEss: Atlantic Refining Co., 260 S. Broad St., Philadelphia, Pa. 19101.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940; M.B.A.,
magna cum laude, 19423 D.C.S., 1951.

MARRIED: Sally Bradford Davis, May 18, 1940. CHILDREN: Nancy Merrill, Sept. 3,
1943 (m. Kenneth Clingman); Priscilla Wells, Oct. 24, 1944; Jonathan
Grant, Oct. 16, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Donald Stanley Bradshaw, '44.

OCCUPATION: President, Atlantic Refining Company (integrated oil company).

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Atlantic Refining Company, since
1958, Atlas Chemical Industries, Inc., since 1960, First Pennsylvania Banking
& Trust Company, since 1961, Penn Mutual Life Insurance Company,
since 1962, Episcopal Academy, since 1962, Chamber of Commerce of
Greater Philadelphia, since 1959 (former president and chairman of the
board), Pennsylvania State Chamber of Commerce, since 1962, Phila-
delphia Industrial Development Corporation, since 1960, American Petro-
leum Institute, since 1960, Southeastern Pennsylvania Economic Develop-
ment Corporation, since 1964, National Industrial Conference Board, since
1963, University City Science Center, since 1964, member, Board of
Overseers Committee to Visit Harvard Business School, since 1963; vice-
chairman of the Governor’s Committee of 100,000 for the Promotion of
Economic Growth of Pennsylvania.

MEMBER OF: Merion Cricket Club; Corinthian Yacht Club; The Courts; Racquet
Club; Harvard Clubs of Philadelphia and New York.

AT my wedding in 1940 an old friend of my wife’s family said to
me, “You will never do anything more important or more success-
ful than you are doing today.” Looking back and looking forward,
I find the old gentleman was quite right.

Following our marriage, my wife and I sat in the back row and
watched my class graduate. This was fortunately the last bit of

[ 137]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

sideline watching we were permitted. Since then we have raised
children; fought in the war; taught at Harvard; worked hard in the
marketplace; played tennis hard, but not well; sailed boats; read a
lot and written a little; made friends and, I suppose, enemies. Of one
thing 1 am sure and that is the truth of something Francis Bacon
wrote: “In this theatre of man’s life, it is reserved only for God and
the angels to be lookers on.”

I have enjoved teaching as an associate professor at the Harvard
Business School; consulting as a partner of Cresap, McCormick &
Paget; and am now enjoying a little bit of both plus some new in-
gredients as president of the Atlantic Refining Company.

The joys and the rewards of the past twenty-five years have all
come from the people involved; since people will continue to be in-
volved, I am looking forward to the next twenty-five years.

JAMES JOSEPH BRADY, JR.

FRO rt eee mire

   

HOME apprEss: Muttontown Road, Syosset, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE AbpRESS: Winthrop, Stimson, Putnam & Roberts, 40 Wall St., New York
5, ~.Y.

paepareD at: Oyster Bay School, Oyster Bay, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; LLB, (New York Univ.), 1949-

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Lawyer.

MeMsgeR o¥: Bar Association of the City of New York, Harvard Club of
New York.

 

AFTER graduation I spent a year in law school before going on
active duty with the Army. In 1945, I was released from active duty
as a major in the Corps of Engineers and was awarded the Legion of
Merit Medal. Several years were spent in training in New York

[ 138}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

City to be a banker, and then I returned to law school, graduating
in 1949. I then went with my present law firm and have had a
stimulating, exciting and rewarding time practising law.

The time has passed quickly and -there just does not seem to be
enough time for all the activities and cultural things that are avail-
able in the city and the surrounding area. I have had at least a
month’s vacation each summer since being in law and have enjoyed
this traveling in Europe or in various parts of our country.

By continuing to play squash at least once a week during the
winter months and skiing in Vermont on as many weekends as pos-
sible, I have kept my weight the same as it was during college days.

Some years ago I built a house in the same area in which I was
raised as a child, and I have found the hourly train commute to and
from the office a fine opportunity to read the morning and evening
newspapers in comfort and in the company of various neighbors and
friends who do likewise. There are still extensive tracts of unde-
veloped acreage in this area which is only twenty-five miles from
New York City and I ride and hunt over the same trails and fields
that I used as a child.

I have been active in local organizations, school districts and
zoning problems and local charitable organizations.

My Harvard education and training has been invaluable to me
both in military and civilian life. The lasting friends that I made in
college and have met through having gone to Harvard are a source
of great satisfaction to me. I have tried to return to Cambridge at
least to one football game each year, and although extensive building
has taken place there since graduation, I still find that most of
Harvard is still the same as it was in 1940 except for the changes that
have taken place in its curriculum.

[ 139]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JOHN WHITING BRAINERD

aR = megan ae
; a a |
Ro
+
i
“ x
€

   
 

Sabla AE PROS

  

ESS: 836 Wilbraham Rd., Springfield, Mass. 01109.

xEss: Dept. of Biology, Springfield College, Springfield, Mass, OLIO9.

t: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

LLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: AB. magna cum laude, 1940; A.M. 1942;

49.

rbara Hale, June 25, 1941. CHILDREN: Jill, Sept. 3, 1944, Roger Wil-

pt. 11, 1945; Allen Hale, Jan. 11, 1948.

HER: Robert Shepard Brainerd, °38.

College educator; professor of biology, chairman of Biology De-

Spriagtield College.

Second vice-president, 1962, president-elect, 1963, president,
rican Nature Study Society; state representative of Nature Con-

ca. 1951-54; chairman, Nature Conservancy's National Commit-
tural Areas for Schools, 1955-61; chairman, Stebbins Memorial
anctuary Trustees, ca. 1952-54; chairman, Conservation Com-
vational Association of Biology Teachers, ca. 1959, chairman,
ralist Committee of American Nature Scudy Society, 1961-
1, Massachusetts Advisory Committee for Conservation Educa-
Department of Education), 1952-64; president, Duggan Junior
1961.

erican Association for the Advancement of Science; Allen
Springfield; American Forestry Association, American Orni-
ion; Bucks Harbor Yacht Club; American Institute of Bio-
es; American Nature Study Society; Botanical Society of
mn Bird-banding Association; Ecological Society of Amer-
1 of Interpretive Naturalists; Izaak Walton League, Massa-
on Society; Massachusetts Forest and Park Association, Na-
on of Biology Teachers, Nature Conservancy, New Eng-
Club; New England Wildflower Preservation Association,
in Society of America, Fellowship of Reconciliation, So-
Society for Social Responsibility in Science,
| journal articles, pamphlets and leaflets on natural re-

[ 149 ]

wee sndte AOE meng? ‘
ewer i nee ww
~ ne

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE paths of a quarter century have brought me geographically
westward to Springfield and philosophically closer to Socrates.
Along the way, most college ideas and clothes have been worn out
and replaced, but a few still fit with a modicum of comfort. My
ski boots bought in Chamonix at the end of sophomore year now
suffer my feet about twice a winter; and I’m still convinced that
Plum Island should be kept wild for beach parties and bird-watch-
ing without disruption by duck-hunting. (Beach buggies, especially
Model A Fords, have their place but like human population must
be controlled.) Lowell House, once standing as the preeminent
building in the world, has now been joined in my mind’s eye by
the slightly loftier U.N. building.

Both graduate study in biology and marriage (to a Wellesley girl
with a Radcliffe A.M.) were of course rudely jolted by World War
II. Believing that “A soft answer turneth away wrath,” I felt that
I could best help a rude world by being a conscientious objector to
organized violence as a solution to international problems. After
some arguing, Uncle Sam compromised and interned me for three
years and fourteen days as a conscientious objector, to do “work of
national importance under civilian direction,” assigned first to the
U.S. Forest Service and then the U.S. Fish & Wildlife Service. They
were hard times for Barbara who did hospital technical work and
research in Boston, New York and Baltimore.

Three postwar years of house-trailer living, free-lance illustrat-
ing and teaching saw me through my Ph.D. and blessed us with three
children. A fond memory is of many hours of botanical field work
for my thesis with my three-year-old daughter on my shoulders;
together we studied the plants of Dover and their relation to three
hundred years of White Man’s occupation of what had been Red
Man’s ecological base.

Now for sixteen years we have lived in Springfield, in a rigidly
ungracious old house, with twelve cubical rooms, inartistic but in-
creasingly available to ’4o as the children grow up and go to college.
Bobbie does much of her mothering by mail now and cautiously
picks up stitches dropped twenty-four years ago. I dig less dis-
ruptedly now into my teaching and conservation but often find my
teen-age students need a little fathering.

As I try to teach biology, the science of life, my students join me
in wondering what it is and where it leads. We share good times
and rough. Along with the science we talk of the art of living
and recognize days of deep failure. My courses are firmly based

[14r ]

enna

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

on much that was taught at Harv ard. I try to imitate Doc Weston’s
dance portray ing the “fruiting slime-molds and I study tree stumps
ring by ring as Dr. Raup did, but surrounded by both long hair and
short as boys and girls in my classes put their heads together over
some forest problem. Here at Springfield College, a private, liberal,
professional school, my students are dedicated to teaching in careers
of education and social service. Motivation for learning is good.
We look at the landscape around us and see it as composed of beauti-
ful but unrelenting nature with human animals galloping about
making a glorious thunder — but with bits in teeth and no bridles.
We ponder whether education and social service can harness these
frothy-mouthed wildlings before the whole herd goes over the
Cliff of Ruined Environment. Tensed by the timeliness of the task,
we work with schools, camps, Y’s and other youth groups, churches,
hospitals, prisons, Audubon Societies, Nature Conservancy and, my
favorite, the American Nature Study Society (which I think of as
the Agassiz Nowadavs Study Society, harking back to the donors
and curators of Harvard’s copper-roofed MCZ).

The city of Springfield with its fine parks and ugly slums is a
good site ‘for ecologists to study the human animal and his fast-
changing environment. The rampant suburbs gouge into green
hills from which clean water used to flow. Indeed, there is some
research and educational pioneering to do out west here in Spring-
field. White Man is less than civilized after more than three hun-
dred years of aggression. Do we know ourselves as well as s Socrates
would have wished?

GRENVILLE CHAPIN BRAMAN

 

HOME AppRess: 5 Tanglewood Lane, Westport, Conn,

[ 142 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE appress: First National City Bank, 399 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938.

MARRIED: Frances Burr Becker, Nov. 17, 1945. CHILDREN: Grenville Chapin, Jr.
Nov. 1, 1946; John Brinsmade, Jan. 22, 1948; Peter Gunn, June 14, 1955;
Barbara Anne, Aug. 14, 1958.

occupation: Banking; assistant vice-president, international trade development.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Gunnery Alumni Association, chairman, Annual
Giving Fund, 1963-64.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Pan American Society; International
Club of Washington, D.C.; International Executives Association,

AFTER living abroad for twenty years, it’s great to be back in my
own country again.

JOHN BREWSTER BREED

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 8 Chauncy St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936—19q0.

MARRIED: Lea Bixby, June 29, 1946 (divorced 1955). CHILDREN: David Brewster,
Oct. 20, 1947; Gail Miner, Nov. 16, 1949; Allen Kimball, Aug. 22, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Free-lance color photographer and writer; self-employed.

MEMBER OF: Explorers Club, New York; Faculty Club (Harvard); American
Society of Magazine Photographers, Harvard Club of Lynn (former pres-
ident); ‘Tedesco Country Club, Marblehead, Mass.; Beach Club, Swamp-
scott, Mass.; Sierra Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous articles in National Geographic Magazine, Arizona
Highways Magazine, etc.

IN reflecting over the twenty-five years that have elapsed since the
balmy mid-June days of 1940, I find the entire period at times seems
like an eon, but upon more careful contemplation really doesn’t
seem long at all.

[ 143 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

First came the war vears, a fresh-caught ensign with a stimulat-
ing initial assignment as photographic officer for the First Naval
District. Then the progressions along the war fronts to air and
photographic officer for the Caribbean Sea frontier; next two years
as aide and flag lieutenant to the commander of all aircraft and of
the forward areas of the Central Pacific; and eventually a shore-
bound billet as executive assistant to the chief of the Bureau of
Aeronautics in Washington. And so went the first five of those
twenty-five years, with four battle stars, one citation, many unfor-
gettable experiences, and numerous pleasant friendships to show
for it.

Next came the formulative years, the start in my chosen pro-
fession as a color photographic illustrator and writer, motion picture
producer and all around free-lancer in about every aspect of outdoor
location color photography; and also, near the start of this career,
a marriage which, though brief, brought forth three delightful
children.

The ten years that have passed since the demise of a divorce have
been more the developmental years, watching the youngsters grow
into the liveliest triumvirate of teen-agers imaginable, seeing the busi-
ness efforts broaden into areas unexpected, and all the while making
the new personal contacts that make each day a refreshing experience.
I have had the privilege of writing and illustrating many articles for
the National Geographic. Life magazine has featured several of my
color essays on the New England scene. And it has been most grati-
fying to realize that almost every general circulation magazine that
utilizes color has, at one time or another, published my photographic
work, along with much supplemental material for advertising illus-
tration, calendars, greeting cards, books and dozens of exhibitions
in art galleries and museums throughout the country. The docu-
mentary motion picture films have won numerous awards with
citations from the American Film Festival in New York, the Venice,
Italy, Film Festival and the Montevideo Film Festival, to name a few.
All this has made this hobby-turned-business a most satisfying
profession.

This brings us to the contemplative years, the years that lie ahead.
Undoubtedly, there will be plenty more developmental years as the
youngsters grow up, and the business, I hope, will keep on expand-
ing. But as I note the way 1 get thinner on top and fatter on the
other end, I know there is going to be plenty of time for quiet
contemplation, too. Hell knows where either the Republicans or

[ 3144 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Democrats are headed, but in either case, I’m sure it will some-
how benefit the progress of the country. These first twenty-five
post-graduate years have indeed been rewarding and, most impor-
tant, so much of them has been fun. With the future possibility of
the Moon, Mars and Venus being added to our worldly yard, and
who knows they might even apply for statehood, the next twenty-
five should be even more fascinating.

JOHN LEWIS BREMER, II

 

HOME ADDRESS: 242 Canton Ave., Milton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: First National Bank of Boston, 67 Milk St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarrizD: Isabel B, Cunningham, April 19, 1941. CHILDREN: Phyllis C., Aug. 18,
1943; Cynthia B., June 17, 1946, Wendy M., Jan. 20, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Frank Morison Bremer, ’32; Robert Bremer, 733.

OccUPATION: Vice-president in charge of all domestic banking offices, First
National Bank of Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Boston Tuberculosis Association, 1959-62; assistant
treasurer, United Fund of Greater Boston, 1958-62; director, Milton Hos-
pital, 1964.

MEMBER OF: Milton-Hoosic Club; Massachusetts Horticultural Society.

SOON after graduation I moved to New York City to get a bank-
ing training and can well remember being asked by the personnel
officer whether I could afford to work in a bank. Married a year
later, my bride and I eked out an existence until we were rescued
by Uncle Sam who gave me a free trip to Africa and Italy for the
duration of World War IT. Our first daughter was born the day I
set sail and first saw her father over two years later. By mutual
agreement through V-mail correspondence, my lovely w ife and I

[ 145 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

decided that citv life was not for us, so we settled down in our old
home town which happily boasts a strong contingent of Harvard
men. Time has raced by — our eldest has completed two years of
higher education and is now a legal secretary. Our second grabbed
her school diploma last June, and our third is thrilled at being in
the “upper” school. For exercise it's been weekend golfing and
gardening, and since the two don’t mix, I have added eight strokes
to my handicap.

Until recently my job threw me into constant contact with people
from all walks of life, who have borne out my conviction that
despite what we read in the press, everyone wants to be an honest
upright citizen, and most are. | am a firm believer in education and
have noted a steady improvement over the years in our local town
government as more and more college men show an interest and
assume positions of responsibility in town affairs. | am grateful to

Harvard for teaching me that people with convictions that differ
with mine usually have many points in their favor.

SIDNEY BRODIE

 

HOME appreEss: 24 O'Rourke Path, Newton Center, Mass, 02159.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1890 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass, 02146,
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: aB, cum laude, 1940, Mo. (George
Washington Univ.}, 1943.
Magaiep: Penny Lerman, May 7, 1947. cuitoren: Paul Michael, Dec. 13, 195093
Richard Alan, Nov. 9, 1954.

Hanvarp BroTHER: Arnold ¥. Brodie, former assistant professor of bacteriology,
Harvard Medical School.

occupation: Physician, specialty in pediatrics,
orvices nei: Currently, chief of Newborn Nursery, Massachusetts Memorial

[ 146]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Hospitals, instructor in pediatrics, Boston University Medical School, mem-
ber of staff, Boston Lying-In Hospital, Children’s Medical Center, Beth
Israel, Newton-Wellesley, Brookline, and Massachusetts Memorial Hos-
pitals, former instructor, Tufts Medical School, currently, pediatrician
with Maternal and Infant Health Study, Children’s Hospital, Boston.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Pediatrics, American Board in Pediatrics
(diplomate) ; Massachusetts Medical Society; Boston Medical Society, New
England Pediatric Society; Sigma Xi, Phi Delta Epsilon Medical Frater-
nity; Norfolk Medical Society.

THOUGH not required to take English A as a freshman, I would
now feel considerably more confident in preparing this résumé of the
past twenty-five years if I had taken this course (and also be more
prompt in sending it in).

Although my chosen profession was medicine, I majored in Far
Eastern History which the dean of the medical school felt was as
far away from science as possible. With this unusual and unlikely
background, I left the quiet confines of Cambridge and went to
Washington, D.C., to start my medical studies. During those years
Washington was a hectic but exciting place to be, and I shall always
remember that fateful morning looking out of my study and seeing
the flag on the German Embassy being lowered.

Medical school was then followed by several years of specialty
training, which involved a transfer in mid-stream from internal
medicine to pediatrics. It was during this time that I met and married
Penny, also of Boston.

After several years of private practice in Fall River, Massachu-
setts, then two years in the Air Force, we finally set up office and
home in Brookline and Newton respectively in 1955. We were now
the proud parents of two sons, Paul and Richard, both of whom are
interested in the sciences.

We suffer the typical pleasures and. pains of the suburban tread-
mill, but somehow manage to take time off in pursuit of our interests
which include theatre and concerts. In addition, Penny has con-
tinued with her painting, and I have become interested in working
in stained-glass. We also enjoy traveling, which to date has taken
us cross-country, to the Caribbean, Canada and Europe.

Though I am unable to answer that most ephemeral of all questions,
the purpose and end of all life, I feel grateful and satisfied with one
that has given me not only understanding parents with foresight for

my future, but also a wonderful wife and children, through whom
I shall perhaps learn the answer.

[ 147 ]

5. -capagpeennennantesi Ran are

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

IRWIN BROOKS

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 2981 Pruneridge Ave. Santa Clara, Calif.

JOHN ROBINSON BROOKS

Pee N

      

HOME apprEss: 95 Church St., Weston, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 721 Huntington Ave., Boston 15, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940, M.D. 1943.

married: Dorothy Kalbfleisch, Sept. 9, 1944. cHiLprEN: David Church, Nov. 9,

1946; Stephen Harrington, Dec. 29, 1948, Nancy Brooks, March 6, 1952;
Geoffrey Robinson, Aug. 3, 1956.

HARVARD SON: David Church Brooks, 68.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Arthur Hendricks Brooks, °39, B.arcH., ’42; Francis Harring-
ton Brooks, ’37.
occupation: General surgeon; assistant clinical professor of surgery, Harvard
Medical School, surgcon, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, Boston; chief of
surgery, University Health Services, Harvard University.
orFices HELD: Editor, Harvard Medical Alummi Bulletin, since 1956; editorial
board member, New England Journal of Medicine, secretary, New Eng-

[ 148 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

land Surgical Society, since October, 1962; chairman, Committee on Ar-
rangements, Massachusetts Medical Society, 1964; chief, Surgical Out-Pa-
tient Department, 1952-64, chairman, Industrial Accident Clinic, 1959-64,
Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, secretary, Peter Bent Brigham Surgical
Associates, since 1963.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons; American Medical Association,
Massachusetts Medical Society, Boston Surgical Society; Charles River
Medical Society; Society of University Surgeons; New England Surgical
Society; New York Academy of Science, Thursday Evening Dinner Club;
Kappa Pi Eta; Aesculapian Club, Vanderbilt Hall Dinner Club; Saenger-
fest; Fox Club, Boylston Medical Society; Northeast Medical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Endocrine Tissue Transplantation, Springfield, Ill., Charles C
Thomas, 1962; numerous articles, including “Hiatus Hernia — The Method
of Repair. A Comparison of that Done Below the Diaphragm with that
Done Above,” New England Journal of Medicine, February, 1962; “Three
Remediable Abdominal Masqueraders,” Surgery, Gynecology and Ob-
stetrics, May, 1962; eighteen editorials in Harvard Medical Alummi Bul-
letin, etc.

IF success in one’s career can be calculated in terms of happiness
achieved while in its pursuit, then I think that my career has been a
success. On graduating from Harvard, I went to its Medical School
along with some forty members of our Class. Tom Healey was with
us and we all came to know him much better than we had at college.
Now that he has gone, we miss him a lot. Those of us who joined
the Army while in medical school became “Buck Privates” in our
last year and lived in “barracks” at Vanderbilt Hall. My internship
and the first half of my residency in surgery took place at Roosevelt
Hospital in New York City. During this time, I married Dorothy
Kalbfleisch, a Smith girl from Wellesley. In 1946, I entered active
duty with the Medical Corps of the Army, spent a fascinating year
at Walter Reed General Hospital in Washington in charge of a
surgical service and then went to Guam in the Pacific where I was
surgeon-in-chief at the 22d Station Hospital. I had a wonderful time
in both of my Army years, having a chance to be in what was then
the Army’s best hospital and then having an opportunity to travel
in the Pacific, visiting Japan, China, Iwo-Jima, Okinawa and other
of the islands in the Pacific.

On my return to Boston in 1948, I began work in Dr. Francis
Moore’s laboratory at the Massachusetts General Hospital studying
problems relating to peptic ulcer disease. In late 1948, when he
moved to the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital as surgeon-in-chief, I
came along with him and have been at the Peter Bent Brigham
Hospital and Harvard Medical School since that time.

L 149 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

| finished mv surgical training at the Brigham and have been on
its staff since. ‘Activities at most medical academic institutions nowa-
davs are similar: the pattern is essentially a triad of teaching medical
school students, research on a problem of one's choice and ‘the prac-
tice of surgery. These have been good years and I have enjoyed
them fully. | have, for some time, been in charge of Harvard Medical
School third- -vear surgical teaching at the Peter Bent Brigham Hos-
pital. [ have also spent considerable time doing research in the field
of peptic ulcer disease and in the field of endocrine tissue transplan-
tation. (Here with the wild hope that someday we could replace
insulin deficiency for a diabetic.) I have continued in the practice
of general surgery at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital and since

1962 have also been chief of surgery to the Harvard Health Services
in Cambridge.

For several vears, I have been editor of the Harvard Medical
Alummi Bulletin and for the last three years a member of the edi-
torial board of the New England Journal of Medicine. These have
both been extremely rewarding positions and have allowed me to
keep in contact with our Alumni on the one hand, and with the
medical literature on the other.

Dot and ] have four children, the eldest of whom is now a fresh-
man at Harvard. He have been fortunate enough to procure a house
in the ski country in Franconia and a house on an island on the
coast of Maine. Here, we have spent many good days and as a
result have children who are both avid skiers and sailors. I suppose
you could consider these our hobbies.

As the years have passed, my political and social convictions have

tended to become more “liberal.” If 1 am still a Republican, I

certainly am a very liberal one and am quite chagrined by the

rightist portion of this party. I am not sure that medical care tied
to Social Security is the best solution for care for the aged, but
some sort of federal help, I am sure, will ultimately be necessary.

I also feel that the federal government must assume a significant

amount of direction in many fields that overlap state boundaries and

which states cannot handle alone. I see no reason why business and
private initiative cannot still flourish under these circumstances.

One only has to look at the support that education receives from the

government to realize how much we owe to the federal government

even now. In short, at the moment, I imagine I am either a con-
servative Democrat or a liberal Republican. I have no qualms about

[150]

etm etmrmaamamea ta am manii aistanuipmaan mati, . eee.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

splitting my ticket and will probably do so in the upcoming elec-
tions.

PETER CHARDON BROOKS

 

MAILING AppREss: 106 Appleton St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

ROBERT ANGUS BROOKS

   

HOME aAppress: 111 Lakeview Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

OFFIcE apprEss: Harbridge House, Inc., 11 Arlington St., Boston, Mass. °

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., Summa cum laude, 1940; A.M. 1941;
PH.D., 1940.

MarRIED: Jane Sheila Kochmann, Jan. 2, 1943. cutpren: Alison Spence, Oct.
15, 1944; Roger Angus, Aug. 29, 1948; Camilla Jane, March 7, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Allan Richard Brooks, ’49, B.ARCH., ’52.

occuPATION: Management consulting; vice-president, Data Management Divi-

[151]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

sion, Harbridge House, Inc.; primarily in information systems, automated
and otherwise,

orrices HELD: Chairman, The Poets’ Theatre, 1957-60.
MEMBER OF: American Philological Association; American Production and In-
ventory Control Society; American Civil Liberties Union, National As-

sociation for the Advancement of Colored People; Harvard Club of Bos-
ton: Cambridge Tennis Club.

pusLicatioss: “Discolor Aura: Reflections on the Golden Bough,” Azerican
Journal of Philology, 1933, (tr.) “Satires of Persius,” Latin Poetry in Verse
Translation, ed. L. R. Lind, 1957; (ed.) Fre 38-2: Logistics-Supply Man-

agement, Department of the Army, 1954; (recording) The Wind in the
Wilows, Pathways of Sound, 1961.

FOR two pleasant vears after graduation, I pursued my studies at
the Harvard Graduate School. These were interrupted by the War
of 1941-45, which many of my classmates will doubtless remember.
I served in the Army Air Forces, Pacific Ocean Area, and had a good
deal to do with aerial photography. It was a most interesting ex-
perience. During this period I married Jane Kochmann, forming a
relationship which has endured with many rewards to the present
day.

My graduate studies were resumed after an honorable discharge,
and continued until 1949 with an attachment to the Society of -
Fellows at Harvard, where I was fortunate enough to meet many
of the “lights” of our generation. 1 was then honored with an ap-
pointment as instructor in classics at the College.

After two years of this occupation I decided to enter the great
world outside the ivied halls. The Col lege raised no objection to
my departure, and | took a position with a management consulting —
firm then being formed, specializing in information and data proc-

essing. On the whole, this was a well-advised move. It has enabled
me to make many valuable associations over the years, particularly
in connection with machines.

In the field of travel, we had the good luck to visit Rome, Italy,
in 1947 for classical studies, and Paris, France, in the years 1960-61

on business having to do with data processing. These visits revealed

to us two quite different aspects of the European Continent. It is
remarkable though that even in the “City of Light” computers
speak to us in the selfsame language as here. I feel that perhaps there
is a moral in this.

Outside these normal routines of business, my life must be much
the same as that of my other classmates, devoted to family, friends,

and interesting correspondence with creditors. Mrs, Brooks and I

[152]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have passed many delightful evenings with our “final notice” scrap-
book.

Like other classmates, I look back upon the college years as the
best of my life. With fond remembrance of those halcyon days of
the thirties, I cannot altogether despair of the present. The policies
of the so-called New Deal cannot last much longer. We may con-
tinue to trust the Germans as a bulwark against the power of the
East. All that is needed is an appeal to the true conservative sense
of the country which has had no opportunity to express itself m the
electoral arena for so many years. We spend our summers in our
backyard, where the latch-string is always out for members of the
Class, and where you can count on running into Harry Pulham,
Bo-Jo Brown and other members of the “old crowd.”

HARRY PETER McNAB BROWN, JR.

 

HOME ApprESS: Hacienda de Guadalupe, Marfil, Gto, México; postal address,
Apartado 114, Guanajuato, Gto, México.

OFFICE appRESS: % Artists Agency Corp., 9229 Sunset Blvd., Los Angeles 69,
Calif.

PREPARED AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939.

MarriED: June Jollie deBaun, Dec. 30, 1959. cHiLp: Jared Jollie Clark, Feb. 23,
1965.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

MEMBER OF: Academy of Motion Picture Arts and Sciences; National Rifle
Association (life member); American Classical League.

PUBLICATIONS: Two novels, A Walk in the Sun and The Stars in their Courses;
one play, “A Sound of Hunting”; five volumes of poetry: The Poem of
Bunker Hill, The End of a Decade, The Violent, Poems 1941-194 (Eng-

land), Tbe Beast in his Hunger; a couple of other books; a plethora of
film scripts.

[153 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ing, too, that America should have both strength and ideals. The
most dangerous thing on the face of the earth is an idealist with

power.
On the global scale, as Fogev Bottom would have it, my outlook is

equalh lly dour. I see the human race as trapped i ina paradox: We are
gregarious beasts that hate the herd. And we distract ourselves with

_ scorpion dreams and the aspirations of pismires.
Of course, there are times when I| feel better about the whole

_ thing, usually on the davs when I get up and have hobbies.
And, therefore, since ‘today Tam up and hobbying, let me end on
a somewhat happier note, with a motto for the Harvard football

teams of the twenty-five vears that loom ahead, not to mention the
elevens of the quarter-century past: Never A pologize, Never Ex-
plain. You'll just look worse if vou do. And that’s saying a lot.

JOHN ALBERT BROWN, JR.

 

MAILING AbpRESS: 404 Riverside Drive, New York, N.Y, 10030,

[ 156 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MILTON PEERS BROWN

 

HOME apprEss: 141 Cherry Brook Rd., Weston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Morgan Hall, Harvard Business School, Soldiers Field, Boston,
Mass. 02163.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Rochester, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: S.B., C2771 lattde, 1940; M.B.A., 1942.

MARRIED: Joan Hawley, Aug. 25, 1945. CHILDREN: Susan Carol, Feb. 18, 1947;
Janet Hill, Dec. 15, 1949; Pamela Grace, April 5, 1951.

occupaTIon: Professor; Lincoln Filene Professor of Retailing, Harvard Business
School,

OFFICES HELD: Director, Gilchrist Company, Boston, since 1949, Gladding’s,
Providence, R.I., since 1954, Harvard Cooperative Society, since 1963,
Savogran Company, Norwood, Mass., since 1963, National Retail Mer-
chants Association, since 1964; member, Standardization Committee, Na-
tional Retail Merchants Association; member, Advisory Committee, Retail
Research Institute, National Retail Merchants Association; member,
Awards Committee, National Association of Tobacco Distributors, Col-
lege Aid Grants.

MEMBER OF: American Marketing Association; Harvard Business School Asso-
ciation of Boston.

PuBLICATIONS: Problems in Marketing, McNair, Brown, Leighton and Eng-
land; Problems in Marketing, third ed., Brown, England and Matthews;
“Operating Results of Department and Specialty Stores in 1945,” “Oper-
ating Results of Limited Price Variety Chains in 1947,” “Operating Results
of Department and Specialty Store Branches,” 1950; “Operating Results
of Multi-Unit Department Stores,” Brown and May, 1959.

IN twenty-five years I have never really left Harvard. After
graduation I moved across the River to the Harvard Business School
where I received my M.B.A. and an invitation to join the faculty as
a research assistant. Thus I began a career that seems destined to
remain based in Cambridge and met my wife-to-be, the daughter of a
faculty colleague.

[3157]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Our life has followed the usual pattern. We have thr
all teen-agers now, who have provided over the years auch appr
ness as they grew and accomplished, and a modicum of distress now
and then over illnesses, broken bones, and occasional broken hearts.

Our eldest is a talented snow and water skier and an avid reader
whose literary pursuits put both parents to shame; our middle
daughter, a compact whirlwind who plays several sports and the
flute with equal proficiency and enthusiasm; and our youngest, a
~ dedicated and competent amateur swimmer with several New Eng-
land A.A.C. records to her credit.

My career has progressed more or less according to schedule in
the academic world, from research assistant to full professor. There
have been disappointments and frustrations, but these have been
more than balanced by satisfactions and compensations.

One of the most rewarding assignments in recent years was teach-
ing in the Advanced Management Program at the Business School.
We had the opportunity to meet and know intimately men con-
nected with widely diverse businesses from all over the world.

Toward the end of my stint with A.M.P., I had the good fortune
to be part of a team which spent a month in India for the Ford
Foundation, helping to set up the Indian Institute of Management,
which hopefully will become the H.B.S. of India. My wife and I
traveled to India via the Far East and returned home through
Europe, visiting en route many of our foreign friends who went out
of their way to make our trip unforgettable. We were entertained by
geishas in Tokyo, shopped with abandon in Hong Kong, visited
countless temples in Bangkok, sipped arrack in Beirut, ate a thirty-six
course dinner in Piraeus (much to our regret), tramped through St.
Peter’s with proper awe, and finally collapsed in Madrid, where
thankfully we knew no one.

Currently, we are planning a trip to Panama in February, where I
will teach in a short program sponsored by A.I.D. We shall take the
Whole family along this time.

Some of our happiest times have been spent at our summer place in
Maine, away from the telephone and somewhat hectic pace we ac-
cept as normal for these times. There we swim, water ski, sail, climb
mountains, read a bit, and play an occasional game of bridge. It is
the frosting on the cake for all of us, something to remember with
satisfaction, something to look forward to with pleasure.

Thave had, with a hefty assist from Divine Providence, Lady Luck,
or whatever one chooses to call it, perhaps more than my share of

[ 158 ]

2§$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

health, happiness, and success in my profession. The years since
college have been good ones. Perhaps the proof of the pudding lies
in the fact that given the opportunity there is little in the past twenty-
five years that I would change; neither is there anyone with whom I
would swap places for the next twenty-five.

SAMUEL EMMONS BROWN, JR.

 

HOME aAppREss: 702 Melrose St., Annapolis, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. John’s College, Annapolis, Md.

PREPARED AT: Staples High School, Westport, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREES: DIPL. (Black Mountain Coll.); a.m.
(Indiana Univ.), 1956; PH.D. (ibid.), 1962.

MARRIED: Dorothy Breeskin, May 25, 1950. CHILDREN: Jamieson, June 12, 1952;
Rebecca Lathan, Sept. 28, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Rufus Brown, ’39.

occuPATION: College professor.

MEMBER OF: American Musicological Society; Medieval Academy of America;
Thank God It’s Friday Club.

I LEAD the altogether rewarding life of a faculty member in the
liberal arts tradition of St. John’s College. Next year, in addition to
the challenge of teaching more and more of the curriculum, my
duties will include pioneering in the opening of the new branch of
St. John’s in Santa Fe. Life seems to grow more exciting as the years
roll on.

[159]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

+ FREDERICK WETHERILL BROWNE

 

BoRN: Feb. 19, 1917, Boston, Mass. pareNts: Percy Corbett Browne, Mary
Faxon.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

piep: Killed in action, June 13, 1943, in Sicily.

FREDERICK WETHERILL BROWNE spent the freshman year

with our Class and was a member of the Harvard Naval ROTC.

He was employed by the Lee, Higginson Corporation in Boston

before enlisting in the Army in March, 1941. He served with the

1orst Field Artillery Battalion for a year, then transferred to the Air
Corps and was commissioned and received his pilot’s wings in
October, 1942. Assigned to overseas duty with a fighter squadron
in the European Theatre, he flew P-38’s as escort to cargo flights to
North Africa. He was later based in North Africa and flew as
escort to bombing missions and was awarded the American Defense
and Air Medals, He was killed in a collision over Sicily, while pilot-
ing a fighter plane. He was survived by two brothers.

[ 160 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES ALLEN BRYER, JR.

 

LAST KNOWN AppRESS: 170 N. Washington St., North Attleboro, Mass. (Lost.)

METCHIE JOSEPH EDWARD BUDKA

 

HOME ADDRESS: 551 W., 239th St., Bronx, N.Y. 10463.

PREPARED AT: Salem High School, Salem, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; A.M., 1949; PH.D., 1962.

MarriED: Barbara Wharton Low, July 13, 1950.

OccUPATION: Teacher and writer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; New York Historical Society; Modern
Language Association.

puBLIcaTIONS: S. H. Armstrong, Jr., M. J. E. Budka, et al., “Preparations and
Properties of Serum and Plasma Proteins. XI. Quantitative Interpretation
of Electrophoretic Schlieren Diagrams of Normal Human Plasma Pro-
teins,” Journal of the American Cheniical Society, 1947; “Under our Vine
and Fig Tree, American Travels of J. U. Niemcewicz,” with Introduction
and Notes, M. J. E. Budka.

THE best Class Life would be no Class Life. Nothing stays the same
[ 161 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1930

size in the telling. The big things become small and the small things
too hig.

Harvard was important to me; not simply for the formal rigor but
for the different and diverse intellectual and social atmosphere to
which I was introduced. I chose Harvard after an unsatisfactory
year and a half at MILT. where I tried to prepare myself for a job.

I spent the war vears teaching and working at the Harvard Medical
School in the Blood Plasma group led by the distinguished bio-
chemist. Professor Edwin J. Cohn.

Except for the last two vears I have always taught full time at the
high school level. Former ‘pupils are perhaps one of the most satisfy-
ing rewards of any man’s endeavor. After the war I decided to
pursue my studies in Slavic literature further, for Harvard had not
only broadened my outlook but intensified for me my growing
recognition of the value of my own Polish-American cultural herit-
age. “Tt was in Poland in 1956, when I was finally able to go there,
that I learned of the existence of the manuscript account of the
Travels Through America of the Polish poet and statesman Julian
Ursyn Niemcewicz. Since then 1 have been preparing this material
for a doctoral dissertation and publication. It will be published by
the New Jersey Historical Society as No. XIV of their Collections
in February, 1965, with an excerpt in the American H eritage maga-
zine. I am very pleased with my late career, and I hope to devote
the rest of my life to Polish-American literary and cultural relations.

It seems to me that in America with large ethnic groups there is an
opportunity to gain dramatically from a synthesis of the diverse cul-
tures. For this to be effective and valuable the identity with nation-
ality is not sufficient. But the ethnic group must have a complete
identity with all the cultural forces in its mother country; an
identity which may not have been completed or even started in
its old environment. This, if it is done in America and done well
will develop a unified world in a microcosm.

1 am very happy in my married and personal life. I have never
had religious convictions and regard them as either sacrosanct and
personal or superfluous. I vote Democratic (sometimes Republican
tor city offices), but I have much more liberal convictions than the

stands for.

1 see my old Harvard classmates and friends from time to time and

jt is always a pleasure. It is a painful blow to me that our most
famous classmate is no longer with us.

{ 162}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS BULFINCH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 230 Conant Rd., Weston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sylvania Electric Products, Inc., 100 First Ave., Waltham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., cum? laude, 1940; M.B.A., 1947.

MARRIED: Marion B. Rust, June 2, 1951. CHILDREN: Susan Rust, Dec. 23, 1953;
Douglas Lunt, Oct. 15, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Bulfinch, ’37.

occupation: Electronics systems, manager of facilities and services, Sylvania
Electric Products, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Industrial Planning Committee, Greater Boston Chamber of Com-
merce; Massachusetts Charitable Fire Society; Drifters Ski Club, Har-
vard Business School Association.

I FIND it most difficult to write this account after twenty-five years
and twenty reminders from Pete Pratt to get the darn thing finished
— obviously, it would have been easier if I had majored in English
or history. Geological sciences was an interesting major but I’ve
never done any rock-knocking and I can’t honestly say that my busi-
ness career has been enhanced by the hours devoted to geography.
Naval science was another matter and started paying dividends im-
mediately. In fact, I’m still in the Reserve and drill every Thursday
night at the Fargo Building in South Boston where Classmate Paul
Keating, a four-striper, is the C.O. of the unit and doing an excellent
job.
World War II accounted for most of the first six years which
were devoted largely to anti-submarine patrol and escort of convoy
duty; first in the Caribbean, then in the North Atlantic and the “Med,”
and finally in the Pacific in command of a destroyer escort. Convoy
duty is downright boring most of the time; however, we visited in-
numerable ports and had ample opportunity to observe other cul-

[ 163 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

tures and ways of life. Many of these countries are now making
headlines in the daily press and T wish T had taken full advantage of
the opportunites to eam more about them and spent less time in
oticers’ clubs and local pubs. In early 1946, [ was fortunate enough
to visit a number of China ports before the Red Chinese took over and
closed them to western eves. It is small wonder that these people
should succumb to a new form of government, the old one offered
nothing.

In 1946, I returned to civilian life, enrolled at the B School and
started to pick up the threads of a career. With my MI.B.A. in hand,
I worked briefly for Textron and then joined Sylvania in early 1949,
at Seneca Falls, New York, where I spent the next nine years except
for an interval with the USN during the Korean War. Marion and
I were married during this tour of duty while I was assigned to
CN.O. in Washington, D.C. skippering a large metal desk through
the Pentagon. We were back in Seneca Falls by late 1952 and the
next five years were happy carefree ones, blessed with two lively
children, summer weekends filled with exciting small boat racing on
the inland lake circuit, and an interesting job in the marketing of
television picture tubes.

Transfer to New York came in 1958, and, after purchasing a
house in Darien, Connecticut, I joined the commuter crowd on the
New Haven for the next five vears. Darien was an interesting town,
a true suburbia, with a very fast population turnover. The notoriety,
which it has achieved in recent months, might have occurred in many
other suburban towns where the insistent dernands of big businesses
on their emplovees have created a new, highly sophisticated, and un-
natural way of life for so many of the youth of our country. How-
ever, we enjoyed Darien and all that it had to offer. We were un-
happy to leave this area in 1963, but this disappointment was more
than offset by our return to the Bay State after a seventeen-year
absence.

We moved back expecting cheaper housing and a lovely yawl in
some cozy harbor. It didn’t happen that way and the yawl is still
nothing but a dream. However, we have thoroughly enjoyed re-
newing old friendships, introducing Susan and Doug to the ski trails
of New Hampshire, spending an occasional fall Sunday at the

Stadium, and living in the town of Weston, a mere seven-minute
commute from my job which is still with Sylvania.

| 164]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THEODORE FRANKLIN BULLEN, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 64 E, 34th St. New York 16, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: C, B. Richards & Co., 5 Hanover Sq., New York 4, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Melrose High School, Melrose, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., cu laude, 1940, M.B.A., 1947; M.P.A.,

1947.

MARRIED: Emily May Ivey, October, 1946 (divorced 1947).

OCCUPATION: Stockbrokerage and research; manager of research service, C. B.
Richard & Company.

MEMEER OF: Harvard Business School Club of New York; Grand Street Boys’
Association; New York Society of Security Analysts.

SALARIES being what they were in June, 1940, I decided to con-
tinue on with my education and spent the next two academic years
working toward an M.P.A. at the Littauer School, supporting myself
the first year by working part-time at the school and the second year
with a full-time job in municipal finance at the Boston Chamber of
Commerce.

By June, 1942, we were seven months into the war. The Navy
didn’t want me because of sub-standard vision in one eye, so, rather
than being drafted into a probable desk job in the Army, I volun-
teered for the Merchant Marine (where, in those days, they counted
your eyes rather than examined them). The next three and a quarter
years (through V-J Day) were dangerous, exhilarating and, all in
all, at least in retrospect, rather wonderful. I packed a lifetime of
touring the world into that short period and wandered into dozens
of out-of-the-way places far off the tourists’ track.

In February, 1946, I returned to Harvard and received an M.B.A.
from the Business School in June, 1947. During this period [ also
finished my remaining courses at the Littauer School and so received
my M.P.A. also that June. About halfway through this crowded

[ 165 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

sixteen months I married my childhood sweetheart, but we Were
either about five years too late or one or two years too early —] am
still not certain which —and a divorce decree was the third jm.

portant piece of paper I picked up in the summer of 1947. I have
enjoyed the single life ever since.

Farly in Professor Charles C. Abbott’s course on corporation
finance at the Business School I knew that this was for me, and 50
after one last long wonderful vacation in the summer of 10947, i
headed for Wall Street and a job selling securities with Goldman,
Sachs. With the exception of a three-year stint as budget director
of the then American Export Lines (1949-52), I have been in Wall
Street ever since. I have been more peripatetic than most, having
worked for a half dozen brokerage firms in the last seventeen years.
Generally, I have found research more congenial than sales, but the
latter is more rewarding financially, and most of the time I have
managed to combine the two—at the price, however, of rather

long hours and short vacations.

Iam one of the fortunate minority who knew early in life just
what kind of work I wanted to do; I would have no other career.
I have been neither an outstanding success nor an outstanding failure.
In 1961, I could have cashed in my paper profits and retired very
comfortably; I didn’t and so now have a considerable amount of re-
building to do. This is not as depressing as it might sound because
I gave no thought to retiring then, give none to it now and probably
never will. There is no sixty-five-year age limit in Wall Street.

For the rest of it, I live a good “big city” life. The majority of
my friends live in the suburbs for reasons best known to themselves.
I have always enjoyed living in the center of things; I can walk from
my apartment to Times Square and the theatre district in thirteen
minutes and often do. I live in an old brownstone designed by Stan-
ford White and last refurbished around the time of that great man’s
death; it is large, slovenly kept and comfortable, and I have been
there now over fifteen years.

Political nomenclature is indefinite, but “liberal Republican”
probably best categorizes my views in the brief space this summary
allows; John Lindsay is the Congressman from my district, and I feel
very well represented.

My main hobby is travel, and I have been all over the world,
making the most of my limited vacations by traveling “hard” and

alone. I prefer the out-of-the-way places (I have seen most of the
others) and [ try when possible to go off season.

[ 166 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

For the rest of the year, reading anything of a non-business nature
has become more and more of a luxury. I am very fond of the
theatre and attend fairly frequently but not as often as I would like.
And, despite the often harsh physical surroundings, I enjoy night
clubs and the top entertainment which is always here in New York.

As to philosophy of life, I really have nothing profound to offer.
I would upgrade experience and downgrade education (of the book
larnin’ variety) as tools for dealing with life’s problems. I am sure
of many things which to me were highly uncertain in 1940, but, con-
versely, many fundamental truths of those days have become larger
and larger question marks with the passing years.

DAVID MOORE BURCH

 

MAILING ADDRESS: P.O, Box 953, Bartlesville, Okla.

WILLIAM LEEDS BURCHARD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 206 Prospect St., Belmont, Mass.

[ 167 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940
oerice anoress; Raytheon Co. Bedford, Mass.
parparrp at: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREE: 8.8. (U.S, Naval Academy), 1941.
married: Mary Scone, Feb. 14, 1944. cattpren: Mary Anne, Aug, 16, 1947;

William Leeds, Je. May 23, 1950; Thomas Hunley, Aug. 16, 19523 Faith
Osborn, April 29, 1937.

occupation: Defense contractor, program planning manager — Tactical Air-
borne Defense System.

wentner oF: Sakonnet Golf Club, Little Compton, R.L; Iroquois Club.

THE change from life at Harvard with its comparative freedom to
the disciplined and regimented life at the U.S. Naval Academy was
one that to some might appear hard to take. Actually, it wasn’t. My
two vears in Cambridge gave me such a good head start, not only
academically but also in maturity, that it is possible to say that the
Annapolis years were both pleasant and extremely fruitful.

The war vears were typical. In looking back, the many humorous
and fun times are the first that are recalled. I suppose this is true of
most of those who came through unscathed. Maybe it is the ability
to remember what we want to and forget the rest. Anyway, I was
able to cruise the Atlantic and the Pacific and still find time to return
to share the lead role in a Valentine’s Day 1944 wedding.

The end of the war brought the next big decision with it: to stay
in the Navy or not. For many reasons I decided to retire, return to
the New England homeland, settle down and raise a family. Al
though there have been times when | have missed the feel of the
pitching decks beneath my feet and the comradeship of my ship-
mates, I have never really regretted that decision.

Early 1946 found us happily engaged in renovating our new (to
us) domicile in Beverly, Massachusetts, while I started a very in-
teresting thirteen years of employment with the United Shoe
Machinery Corporation. In 1949 1 changed office location from
Beverly to Boston and we also moved a few miles north to the lovely
town of Hamilton. Sales, marketing, new product development and
engineering comprised the general lines of my efforts, while also
finding time to renew old friendships as well as favorite activities
such as golf and duck hunting.

In 1958 I joined Raytheon and am now program planning manager
for the Tactical Airborne Defense System (primarily the Sparrow
Ill Guided Missile), These have been fast-moving, fascinating years
with many headaches, but providing a fecling of accomplishment.

In 1460 we moved to our present home in Belmont to be nearer
the office. Close proximity to Cambridge is another result, to the

{ 168 J

2§5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

enjoyment of all of us. My two sons are anxious to enter Harvard.
I hope they can, but must say that I’m glad I don’t have to take the
exams.

HENRY AMOS BURGESS

 

HOME AbpREss: Birney Star Route, Sheridan, Wyo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 W, Brundage St., Sheridan, Wyo.

PREPARED AT: Sheridan High School, Sheridan, Wyo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LL.B. (Univ. of Michigan), 1948.

MarrigeD: Mary Hayden, Jan. 19, 1946. CHILDREN: Sheridan S., May 28, 1947;
Molly H., July 13, 1948, Tyler E., July 18, 1950, Heather H., Dec. 21,
1951; Sarah L., April 2, 1956 (died June 7, 1960); James H., Nov. 10, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Henry Burgess, ’31, A.M., "33, PH.D., "36.

OCCUPATION: Attorney at Law and ranching.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Wyoming House of Representatives, 1949-51; Sheridan
County Prosecuting Attorney, 1951-55; member, Wyoming State Senate,
1957-61; member, board of directors, Wibaux Gas Company; secretary,
treasurer and member, board of directors, Benton Clay Company; presi-
dent, Big Horn Mountain Horse Show.

MEMBER OF: Masonic Lodge; Elks Club; sundry P.T.A.’s.

FOLLOWING graduation at Harvard I enrolled in the University
of Michigan Law School in the fall of 1940. When, in December of
that year, | was ordered to report for military duty in February,
1941, I was regarded as a frivolous student and advised by the faculty
that as a matter of policy any student dropping his law studies to
enter military service would never be readmitted (after all, President
Roosevelt had just assured all that he would never send American
sons to European battlegrounds).

Enter service I did in early 1941, serving with the horse cavalry
until Pearl Harbor (you will all agree that the cavalry did lend tone
to what would otherwise have been a vulgar mob). Shortly there-

[ 169 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

after | transferred to the 1ith Airborne Infantry Division where |
grew Tean, hard and fast serving in the Parachute Infantry in New
Guinea and the Philippines as an Infantry battalion commander,
regimental executive officer and later as the division G-3. Promotions
and medals came easy to those who survived and I returned home
from Japan (U had landed in the first plane into Japan) after the war
a lieutenant colonel with a Silver Star, Legion of Merit, Bronze Star
and Purple Heart and with maturity and purposef ulness.

As soon as the ship docked [ went to the nearest phone and called
Mary Hayden of Ann Arbor, Michigan, whom I had met in service
and who had only recently returned from serving twenty-eight
months in the Red Cross in England and Europe, and invited her to
Wyoming. A few months larer we were married. The dean of the
Michigan Law School recognized me as “that fellow from Wyo-
ming who started all this” and let me back into Crimes, Torts, etc.,
several weeks later.

Upon completing law school I returned to Sheridan, Wyoming,
to practise law and after twelve vears in service and school found
mvself a stranger in mv home. Wise in the affairs of government
and politics after ‘ ‘concentrating” in Harvard’s field of history,
government and economics, I ran for the Wyoming House of
Representativ es and to the surprise of myself, the party leaders who
had told me not to run (I would not have run had they not been so
emphatic), and the electorate | was elected. Thereafter I served in
the House, the Senate and as County Prosecutor.

A few vears ago Mary and I decided that we were missing much
of life living in town and were fortunate to find a small ranch just
seven miles “trom town. Now we are raising our five children in a
quaint old ranch house sitting among a grove of large trees (a rarity
in Wyoming), with a view across lush irrigated meadows to the
towering g Big Horn Mountains beyond. We raise hay, cattle, wheat
and horses. One of our greatest pleasures has been recruiting children
from our friends for the summer’s work in the hayfields and
harvesting. They learn to work and the discipline of hard physical
labor day after day i in the hor fields.

Unlike most of my classmates | have had no contact with Harvard
since graduation, except for the annual request for donations to the
Class Fund, election of candidates to the Board of Overscers, and
only infrequent and chance meetings with former classmates. Geog-
raphy and linuted financial resources and not lack of desire to see
old friends and places are the causes, The Class of 1940 Was touched

[170]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

by history as have few other classes ever been affected. The talents
and the lives of its members were unselfishly contributed. Perhaps
living far away from the fields of endeavor of most of my old friends
and leading a simple life in a quiet agrarian community as a small
town country lawyer enable me to more fully appreciate and thrill
to the achievements of the members of the Class as many become
presidents of large corporations, renowned scholars and teachers,
contributors to the culture of our times, and one even President of
our country. But more satisfying is it to know that such individuals
in those important posts and places had their minds trained and their
characters and ideals fired and formed by Harvard.

RICHARD WILLIAM BURNETT

Bere 2 SERRE ge

    

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: R.D. 2, Oneonta, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., C47 laude, 1940; A.M. 1941.

MarrieD: Ruth A. Pitkin, May 22, 1943. CHILDREN: Barbara Carol, Dec. 20,
1946; Nancy C., June 6, 1950; Marjorie, Feb. 20, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Farming.

[171 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ROBERT BOIT BURNHAM

 

HOME ADDRESS: 326 N. Washington Ave. Fayetteville, Ark.

OFFICE apprEss: 316 W. Dickson St., Fayetteville, Ark.

prepare aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939, 1940-1941. DEGREE: A.B., 1940(41).

marrieD: Sheila B. Ryan, May 4, 1943 (divorced 1963); M. Elaine (Leber)
Maxon, February, 1963. cHiLoreNn: William Ellis Leber, Jan. 28, 1947;
Robert Bailey, Oct. 10, 1947; Ellin Boit, June 6, 1954; Louisa Anne, March
23, 1964.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Appleton Burnham, Jr., ‘38.

occupation: Consulting engineer—main field structural engineer (self-em-
ployed); registered professional engineer, Arkansas, Pennsylvania, Massa-
chusetts.

OFFICES HELD: Scoutmaster, Cambridge, Mass. 1959-62, chairman, O & E Com-
mittee, Northwest District, West Arkansas Council, B.S.A., since 1963.
MEMBER OF: National Society of Professional Engineers, Consulting Engineers
Council; Fayetteville Chamber of Commerce, Fayetteville Rotary Club,
Society of Colonial Wars, Navy League of Tulsa, Oklahoma; Fayetteville

Country Club.

“THE time has come,” the walrus said, “to talk of many things.”
So be it. How many, and what, and which is the question. “I'wenty-
five years is short in some ways and so full in others.

Perhaps the best that can be said is that while Harvard taught us
plenty and prepared us well, the most learning has come since we
left her. It started for me after my third year when I left Harvard
and in Lowell, Massachusetts, worked sweeping floors and learning
one small phase of the textile industry. (One year of this was
enough, and unlike so many present day “dropouts” I returned and
finished out the following year.) It was the spring of 1941, then,
when Harvard deigned to deliver the parchment. Draft orders were
out, so no jobs were open, and in September I became a GL,

[172]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Swiftly came engineers basic training, topographical training, and
off they sent me in January, 1942, to Fort Lewis, Washington. In
May I went on to Australia. A year later came O.CS. (first class
in Australia) with assignment to the 32d Infantry Division. In the
fall of 1945 I came back to the United States and was let out after
following (or leading) General MacArthur through New Guinea,
Leyte, and Luzon (accumulations: four campaign stars, Bronze Star,
captain’s bars, and a wife by proxy).

The period after the war was for me a kind of terrific adjustment,
three years out of business life, a wife I hadn’t seen for a long
time, and what now to do. I started off teaching math, history,
French and religion to seventh and eighth graders at Hackley School
in Tarrytown, New York. (I wonder now how some of them have
fared!) Two years later I knew this was not for me.

Consequently, we went back to Boston and I started in engineer-
ing at the bottom rung of Turner Construction Company’s ladder.
During the next fourteen years I climbed doing a small gypsy dance
on the way (two years Boston, four years Pittsburgh, three months
Chicago, two years Philadelphia, and six years Boston, in that order).
During this period the family grew with the addition of my first son —
and daughter.

After all this time I felt that I had finally had enough of working
for a large company with the constant threat of moving, I felt that
Turner’s excellent training in the fourteen years I spent with them
gave me a good background for going out on my own. Finally, after
a six months’ search, I settled here in Fayetteville, Arkansas, opening
my own consulting engineer’s office.

Not too long afterwards I remarried, gained another teen-age son,
and with two new careers life has certainly taken on a new and
wonderful look. The engineering business is coming along fine, and
this March our claimant for the youngest class child, little, sweet-dis-
positioned, loving, red-haired Louisa Anne was born (I may sound
prejudiced, but you should see her).

After more than two years in this anomalous portion of Arkansas
(anomalous? It votes Republican, is one of the most forward look-
ing, progressive, and aggressive areas, is shortly to have the best lake
in the U.S.A., and is home-of the Arkansas Razorbacks, Cotton
Bowl 1965), I could not be rooted out.

Those are the facts, the happenings of twenty-five years, but what
do they mean? First of all, I know that without the education with
its broad background, A.B. in engineering science, and without all

[ 173 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

the epportunities to take elective courses in other fields, I could not
passibly have made these changes in my fields in the past twenty-
hve vears, From Harvard came an understanding to view all prob-
lems from ev ery viewpoint, not just the narrow engineering view-
point. I Education today, I feel, in the sciences particularly, is result-
ing in a tremendous emphasis on science, per se, and a massive pro-
duction of scientific mechanics with no understanding of the inter-
play of their fields with others,

Secondly, the gypsy dance my life has led has made it easy to
ignore w hat is going on in this country politically except at national
election times. ‘The events of this November have brought a realiza-
tion of this lack in myself and also I feel in too many others of us,
which is best summarized in the words of one of our local Demo-
cratic candidates, “Too many Republicans have become Independ-
ents and have divorced themselves from the local level party
aifairs, resulting in the ability of an aggressive organized group to
take over and succeed in nominating a maverick.” The fact of having,
this fall, to vote for the lesser of two evils is not a happy happen-
stance to look back on. I know I have learned a lesson, I hope others —
have also.

And so perhaps the best summary of these twenty-five years is
that we learned at Harvard and we must not stop learning. We must
put as much of ourselves into directing the aims of education and the
aims of our political parties as we do into those things that are
closest to us, our work and our families.

RICHMOND PETERS BURR

 

reste acts as: 106 Fuclid Ave., Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.
wre asm: F.5. Moseley & Co., 60 Broad St., New York, N.Y. 10004,

[174]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

marrigeD: Mary Strong, April 21, 1941. CHILDREN: Mary Anne, July 8, 1943 (m.
Peter S. Sindell, Aug. 1, 1964); Caroline Seelye, May 21, 1945, George
Lindsley, 2d, Aug. 27, 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Benjamin Munroe Burr, ’45.

occuPATION: Investment banking, partner.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Bankers Club of America; Ardsley
Country Club.

SIX years in the Navy, four years in a factory, fifteen years in the
investment banking business, a wonderful wife, three children, in-
numerable civic activities ranging from volunteer fireman to church
treasurer have made for a busy, happy and fascinating twenty-five
years,

DAVID SILL BURT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 901 Stillwater Rd., Stamford, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Home and Time, Inc., Rockefeller Center, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Eleanor Jackson, Sept. 25, 1948. CHILDREN: Katharine, Dec. 30, 1949;
Marcy, Dec. 17, 1951; James, Aug. 31, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Griswold Burt, Jr., ’38.

occuPATION: Sculptor; writer.

MEMBER OF: Stamford Museum; Silvermine Guild of Artists; Sculpture Center;
Roxbury Swimming Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Various magazine articles,

THE Bomb, urban decay and the New Haven Railroad notwith-
standing, I would like to put in a good word for the twentieth cen-

[175 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

turv, Never has there been an age when a moderately venturesome
coung man out of Harvard or Peoria High could wander up as many
avenues as I have.

The first was Vadison Avenue. I enlisted in an ad agency mail
room four davs after graduation, And even now, a quarter century
later, I take the New Haven every morning out of Fairfield County
toa job advertising magazines in Manhattan. Still Madison Avenue —
but here, and along various thruways, back alleys and old ox roads,
I've done quite a number of things. To name a few:

I worked a mght shift for the FBI, maneuvered an LCI on five
Mediterranean invasions, sailed an LST all the way from Pittsburgh
to Panama to Shanghai, handled postwar public relations for the tin
can manufacturers until finally | was canned, played Bach’s “Great
Fantasia” and “Fugue in G Minor” from memory on the piano ac-
cordion, delivered a campaign oration for Adlai Stevenson from

steps of the Stamford (Conn.) Town Hall, promoted Architectural
Forum, House & Home and Sports Illustrated for Time, Inc., won
the town tennis championship, free-lanced magazine articles, marched
on Washington with the CORE in 1963, dabbled in real estate,
became a devotee of J. D. Salinger, Lawrence Durrell, Tennessee
Williams, Igor Stravinsky, Francis Poulenc, Miles Davis, Bob
Cousy and contemporary architecture in general, began psycho-
analysis six years ago and haven't come out of the woods yet.

Meanwhile, just as I was passing forty, a strange and lovely thing
happened. Tinkering on vacation in my father-in-law’s Pittsburgh
machine shop, I concocted a piece of sculpture that won first prize
in the Time, Inc. art show. Hoping that I had struck a vein of talent,
I began hacking away in the garage evenings and weekends, ham-
mering sheet brass, copper and bronze into sinuous action forms that
developed the contours of wings, waves and airfoils. Pretty soon, my
wife Eleanor was telling our friends in her own quaint way, “People
are buying David's sculpture who don't even know him!” My first
major one-man exhibition came at the Sculpture Center, New York,
in 1963. My work has since made the rounds of many group exhibi-
tions and found its way into business and apartment lobbies, schools
and private collections. |

From here on, I believe, more and more of my thought and energy
will focus on this home-grown art that I never could have learned in
college. For me, in fact, a good education has been a curious handi-
cap. In college I learned to be artful. But the way to art is through
artlessness. Without a free-wheeling sense of effortlessness I couldn’t

[176 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

begin to do the demanding sculptural work I have done — and hope
to do in the next twenty-five years—and the next .. .

Eleanor and I share a chaotic household in Stamford, with three
handsome, garrulous children: Kathy (fifteen), folk singer and artist,
Marcy (thirteen), athlete and cartoonist, and James (ten), a swash-
buckling river boat pilot on the ten-foot-wide stream that flows
through our backyard.

Eleanor has lately moved into the professional class as a photog-
rapher. I think her strongest charm for me over the years has been
her unpredictability. Since the moment we were married she has
kept me guessing. And though Harvard added richness, perspective
and curiosity to my last twenty-five years, an A.B. degree has
scarcely aided — and even left a few academic roadblocks in the
way of the two pursuits that fascinate me most, woven and art.

JAMES RUDY BUTLER

 

MAILING AppREss: 368 Northview Drive, Bexley, Ohio,

[177 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

LLOYD GATES BUTTERFIELD

 

E ADDRESS: 20 Symmes Rd., Winchester, Mass.

se appress: AVCO Corp., Research and Advanced Development Division,

Wilmington, Mass.

areD aT: Middlebury High School, Middlebury, Vt.

S IN COLLEGE: 1938-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1940.

ue: Gloria Edgerton Mayette, July 13, 1946. cHiLprEN: Stephen Charles,

Jet. 17, 1937; Thomas Truman, March 4, 1949; John Lloyd, March 10,

953; Julia Elizabeth, Sept. 5, 1958.

pation: Purchasing agent, AVCO Research and Advanced Development

Jivision; retired lieutenant commander, Supply Corps, U.S. Navy.

ES HELD: Supply officer, USS Rudyerd Bay, CVE-81, 1944-45, contracting
oficer, Navy Purchasing Office, New York, Naval Supply Depot, Scotia,
N.¥., and Navy Purchasing Office, Los Angeles, 1945-48, supply officer,
~SS Yosemite, AD-19, 1948-49; operations officer, Naval Supply Depot,
3avonne, N.J., 1950-51; officer-in-charge, Navy Purchasing Office, Nor-
olk, Va. 1952-54; purchasing officer, Naval Supply Depot, Yokosuka,
Japan, 1954-56; supply officer, Naval Ordnance Plant, Forest Park, IIL,
1957-60, administrative contracting officer, Bureau of Naval Weapons
Representative, Raytheon Company, Waltham, Mass., 1960-61; subcon-
ract administrator, RCA, Wilmington, Mass., 1951-63.

BER OF: Harvard Business School Association of Boston; Winchester Boat
Club; Winchester Badminton Club; Defense Supply Association, National
Association of Purchasing Agents, 1959-61, Chicago Purchasing Associa-
tion, 1959-60, New England Purchasing Association, 1960-61, Harvard
Club of Japan, 1955-56.

SIDES the Twenty-fifth Reunion there’s nothing that quite makes
1 realize how time passes as much as a bouncing six-year-old
ghter and three older sons, the eldest accepted, subject to good
avior, as a Harvard freshman come fall. Wonder how many other
s of ’go will enter then?

ooking back over twenty-five years you think of the determining

[ 178 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

factors of “how-it-all-happened.” Not only am I now a retired
naval officer but [’ve had the honor of being, for most of that career,
one of those most criticized (and misunderstood) of all public
officials, a military contracting officer. Most of you have never
had the pleasure for nearly twenty years of having the General
Accounting Office, Members of Congress and the general public
looking over your shoulder. The Navy Supply Corps even created
an honorary society known as the “Order of the Purple Shaft”
whose motto is “Semper Errata.” Knowing that you were always
subject to the “Second Guess,” at an early date I decided my answer
to these problems was simply, that if I could get up in the morning
and look at myself in the mirror, 'd done my best, and so-what to
the second guess.

I would say that the first determining factor was attending Har-
vard. Transferring from Middlebury College, from the small Ver-
mont town of the same name, I was primarily interested in a career
in education with a major in history. At Harvard my interest
changed to economics and the Business School in the fall of ’g0. In
the spring of ’41, with Hitler on the move in Europe and the draft
board’s hot breath on my neck, I abandoned the Business School
with hopes of a career in the ski troops. When it became apparent
that the Army guaranteed no such career, | completely reversed my
field as the result of a friendship with a Navy lieutenant at Harvard,
and became an ensign in the Supply Corps Naval Reserve. Needless
to say, the Navy promptly returned me to the Business School as a
member of the first big Supply Corps School class there.

The second determining factor, becoming a naval officer, led to
all kinds of interesting experiences, too many to cover in detail.
World War II included such diverse experiences as being caught in
a snowslide in Tuckerman’s Ravine; convalescing at the Naval
Hospital, Sun Valley, Idaho, not wounds, but kidney stones, serving
as supply officer of the USS Rudyerd Bay CVE-81, a baby flattop,
during actions off the Northern Philippines, Iwo Jima and Okinawa;
passing through the eye of a 120-knot tornado; and being en route
from Pearl Harbor to San Francisco on Japanese surrender day.

Returning to the United States in the fall of 1945 to a short course
in contract terminations at the Army Industrial College, Washington,
D.C., led to the third determining factor, eventual entry into the
field of purchasing through the back door of contract terminations.
While sweating out the points necessary for release to inactive duty
in time for a winter of skiing, I was assigned duty at the Navy

[179 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

GEORGE FORREST BUTTERWORTH II

 

HOME ADDRESS: 480 Van Voorhis Ave., Rochester, N.Y,

OFFICE aDpress: Marine Midland Trust Co., W. Main Street, Rochester, N.Y.

prePAreD aT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

Marnie: Beverley Wheeler, June 25, 1945 (divorced 1957); Janet Pammenter,
Oct. 24, 1959. CHILDREN: George Forrest, 4th, Feb. 11, 1950; William
Henry, Aug. 9, 1963.

occupaTioN: Investment officer in trust department of a full service bank.

oFFices HELD: President, Trinity College Alumni Association of Rochester
Area, 1964-65; vice-president and director, Rochester Society of Invest-
ment Analysts, 1964-65; officer, Financial Analysts Federation, 1964-65.

MEMBER OF: Sodus Bay Heights Golf Club; Sodus Bay Yacht Club; Civic

Music Association; Memorial Art Gallery; Landmark Society; Counsel
Club.

JAMES PATRICK BYRNE

 

HOME AND OFFICE Abbaess: St, Mary’s Rectory, 133 School Se, Waltham, Mass,
Parparen at: Buston College High School, Boston, Mass.

{ 182 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1938-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: Catholic priest; assistant in St. Mary’s Parish, Waltham.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Waltham Family Service Association, since 1958, mem-
ber, Waltham Chapter, American Red Cross, Home Service Committee,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston,

FOLLOWING graduation, I spent one year at the Harvard Law
School. I then enrolled at St. John’s Seminary in Brighton, Massa-
chusetts. Following studies in philosophy and theology, I was
ordained a priest of the Catholic Church by Richard Cardinal Cush-
ing on June 14, 1946. Since then I have served as an assistant in
Sharon, Whitman and Waltham, Massachusetts. My work has con-
sisted of ministering to the people through the Mass and the Sacra-
mental system. The work is quite varied, ranging through Boy

Scouts, Girl Scouts, youth programs, religious instruction, classes for
converts, chaplain to allied groups, and chasing the accident victims
from Route 128 to Waltham Hospital.

Being a priest is quite different from the lives of most Harvard
men. It has a touch of the Madison Avenue selling approach, a
touch of the medicinal in ministering to man’s inner self, a touch of
glamour in launching my people in marriage, a touch of sadness in
burying them. Every day brings new challenges, new experiences.

My religious convictions should be obvious. My political thoughts
dare not be mentioned. When an undergraduate, my objective was
to make “that million.” I have long since given up that dream!

I have been fortunate to travel most of Europe and to spend some
time in Ireland. I play at golf and dangle at skiing. I find life a
stimulating adventure and eagerly knock at the door of the next
twenty-five years.

[ 183 |

ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

HFRBERT THOMAS FULLER CAHOON

 

4JOME ADDRESS: 151 E, 83d St, New York, N.Y. 10028,

OFFICE appress: Pierpont Morgan Library, 29-33 E. 36th St. New York, NY.
10016.

*REPARED AT: Chatham High School, Chatham, Mass.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; A.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1943.
“NM ARRIED.

<cupaTion: Librarian; curator of autograph manuscripts and later printed
books, and chief of the Reference Department, Pierpont Morgan Library.

Frices HELD: Lecturer, School of Library Service, Columbia University, since
1951; news editor, Bibliographical Society of America, since 1959; mem-
ber, various committees, American Library Association, since 1941; council
member and chairman, Library Committee, The Grolier Club, New York,
since 1961; consultant, New York State Council on the Arts, since 1962.

[EMBER OF: The Grolier Club, Caxton Club, Chicago; American Historical
Association; American Library Association; Bibliographical Society (Lon-
don); Bibliographical Society of America; Manuscript Society; Modern
Language Association; Poetry Society of America.

KBLICATIONS: Thanatopsis (poems), 1949; Herman Melville, a check list, 1951,
A Bibliography of James Joyce, with John J. Slocum, 736, 1953; A Brief
Account of the Clifton Waller Barrett Library (University of Virginia),
1950; The Overbrook Press Bibliography, 1963; editor (with others), The
Tiger's Eye, 1947-49; edited (with Theodore Spencer, Ph.D., °28, and
John J. Slocum, ’36), James Joyce Stephen Hero, 1963, various library
exhibition catalogues and contributions to periodicals and anthologies.

INCE graduation my activities have been generally concerned with
900ks and manuscripts, both in and out of libraries. An under-
zraduate apprenticeship at Widener convinced me that books could
ye a very satisfactory way of life and | continued my studies at
he Graduate Library School of Columbia University, where I now
ametimes teach, Finding New York an agreeable city in which to
ive, | remained here, in various positions in the Reference Depart-

[ 184 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ment of the New York Public Library. In 1954 I joined the staff of
the Pierpont Morgan Library. In addition to my professional work
I have remained active as a writer and bibliographer and have found
some time for travel. .

As a librarian I am concerned with the acquisition of book and
manuscript materials, preparing them for scholarly use, and supervis-
ing this use. Not only in this country but on visits to antiquarian
bookshops from London to Istanbul I have come upon many un-
usual items, and I have had an opportunity to work in many of the
great libraries of the United States and Europe. Through the years
the scarcity of truly first-rate material has become increasingly
evident, but current high prices have tended to bring some into the
market.

In 1949 I published a small book of poems and I have continued
to write poetry and verse plays from time to time. A Bibliography
of James Joyce, compiled by John J. Slocum, ’36, and myself, ap-
peared in 1953 after ten years of hard work and was followed by
other bibliographies and Morgan Library exhibition catalogues. I
am now engaged on a comprehensive bibliography of Paul Valéry,
French man of letters. .

. My social life includes a rather heavy schedule of convivial meet-
ings of bookmen, concerts, opera and theatre, which New York
City provides in guantity and quality. But my greatest interest is
in my work, and I often think back to that day in 1937 when, as a
student assistant, I joined the Widener staff.

HENRY BRYAN CALDWELL

greece

    

HOME AnpREss: 920 Graydon Ave., Norfolk, Va.

[ 185 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940
orice apoeess: Norfolk Museum of Arts and Sciences, Yarmouth and the
Hague, Norfolk, Va
prepareD AT: St. George's School, Newport, RAL
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B, 1940; AML (New York Univ.), 1948.
arrien: Dona Ely Conoley, Oct. 1, 1947. cratoren: Katherine Gray, July 31,

1948, Margaret Burgess, Feb. 23, 1952; Ann Gilchrist, Feb, 11, 19533 Eliza-
beth Ely, Dec. 3. 1958.

warvarn BROTHERS: Edward Theodore Caldwell, “38, Joseph Ivins Caldwell, ’45.
occcpatios: Director, Norfolk Museum of Arts and Sciences.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York,

AFTER the war, 1 went into the museum world. I am at present
director of the Norfolk Museum of Arts and Sciences.

ROBERT JOSEPH CALIHAN

  

HOME abpreEss: 780 Allens Creek Rd., Rochester, N.Y. 14618.
OFFICE appress: 277 Alexander St., Rochester, N.Y. 14607.
PREPARED AT: Monroe School, Rochester, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; MD. (Univ. of Rochester),
1948.
MARRIED: Martha Wooster, Sept. 1, 1949. CHILDREN: Robert Barnes, May 20,

1951; Martha Stowell, Oct. 14, 1953; Sara Austin, April 9, 1956, Elizabeth
Wooster, Dec. 16, 1960.

occupation: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1951-54, trustee, 1955-58, Monroe County Medical
Society, member, Workmen's Compensation Committee, 1956, Legislative
Committee, 1957, New York State Medical Society, trustee, Genesce
Valley Medical Care, Inc, (Blue Shield), since 1956, Allendale School,
since 1942.

MEMBER OF: Radivlogical Society of North America, American College of
Radiology; American Board of Radiglogy,; American Medical Association;
Medical Society of the State of New York, Monroe County Medical So-
ciety; Genesee Valley Club, Country Club of Rochester; Nantucket

{ 186 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Yacht Club; Harvard Club of Boston; Harvard Club of Rochester

(trustee, 1946-48,. 1952-54, since 1964).
GRADUATION from Harvard is an exciting climax for the man
who is going out into the world to seek his position. For the man
who is going on to graduate school, it is only another stepping stone,
and while certainly the biggest so far in his career, it does not have
the finality that it does for the former. Falling into the latter group,
it took a number of years for the impact which Harvard had on me
to come to the surface in my life.

The intense and exciting years of medical school at the University
of Rochester, followed by the years of internship, assistant residen-
cies, residency, instructorship, a teaching appointment at Johns
Hopkins in Baltimore, and a cancer research fellowship at the Ros-
well Park Institute in Buffalo all led to the everlasting dilemma of
the young physician. Ultimately, the decision had to be made
whether to stay within the confines of teaching and research or to
make the big step and go into the private practice of medicine.
Without any question, the year during which I pondered this ques-
tion and ultimately made the decision to go into the private practice
of medicine was the most difficult of my life. How Martha kept up
with the everlasting circle of logic which I propounded in that year
is still a mystery. She weathered the storm and I am sure we made
the right decision. We have been in private practice, and I say we,
because a wife puts up with certain inconveniences when her hus-
band is in private practice, for thirteen years. It has been extremely
rewarding and gratifying and a source of great pleasure to us both.

I delved into organized medicine on the state level at an early age
and became interested in problems of Workmen’s Compensation,
medical legislation and medical politics. I became discouraged by the
red tape in these areas, and rather quickly decided to practise
medicine rather than become a medical politician. I resigned myself
to the practice of medicine as it is, and accepted with remorse the
realization that sooner or later (and it now seems to be sooner than I
had anticipated) we would be engulfed in a major national medical
program. In spite of this apparent negativistic attitude, I have
thoroughly enjoyed nearly eight years of active participation on the
board of directors of the Genesee Valley Medical Care Program
(Rochester’s Blue Shield) and feel that perhaps some contribution
has come from the time and effort spent in this direction. I have also
had a deep interest in the Boys Country Day School and, as a trustee
of the school, have helped in some degree, I hope, to make it a good

[ 187 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

school. The time spent working on the Harvard Club of Rochester
Scholarship Committee nearly twenty vears ago has been most re-
warding.

My biggest disappointment is that it took eight years after college
before I found Martha. I wasted little time thereafter, however, in
that the following year we were married and now boast of our four
fine children. Rob is thirteen, and the girls, Martha, Sara and
Elizabeth, are eleven, eight and four. “Togetherness” is not in our
vocabulary, but we have spent happy wintertimes on the eastern
ski slopes, and count our truly happiest times our summer vacations
in Nantucket. Life so far has been fulfillment to the zenith. I can
only hope that the next twenty-five vears will be as great so that |
may write my Fiftieth Report with equal enthusiasm.

[ began the report by saving that the impact of Harvard was hard
to judge. I can end it by saving that it is still hard to judge, but I
know that it has had a tremendous influence on every aspect of my
twenty-five years, and that the happiness of these twenty-five years
has, without question, been strongly influenced by that which Har-
vard gave to me as an undergraduate,

ASHLEY SAWYER CAMPBELL

 

HOME AppRESS: 18 Talbot Ave. Medford, Mass.

oFFICE aporess: Tufts University, Medford, Mass.

preparep AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, NJ.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: 8.8. 19403 5.M., 19473 5.D.. 1949.

mMakniep: Mary L. Fishler, July 18, 1942. CHILDREN; Ashley Sawyer, Jr., Nov.
25, 1943; Christopher Stuart, April 16, 1946; Martha Overton, March 23,

1948, Gordon Hovey, July 15, 1949; Philip LaRoche, Dec. 4, 1950; Ben-
jamin Hill, June 22, 1456,

'

[ 188 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD SON: Christopher Stuart Campbell, ’68.

OCCUPATION: College dean.

OFFICES HELD: Engineer, Wright Aeronautical Corporation, 1940-45; assistant
dean, 1948-49, assistant professor, 1949-50, Harvard University, dean, Uni-
versity of Maine, t950-57, Tufts University, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi; Tau Beta Pi; American Society for Engineering Educa-
tion; American Society of Mechanical Engineers,

PUBLICATIONS: Several technical papers.

THE first five years out were spent at the Wright Aeronautical
Corporation, working on various experimental designs for aircraft
engines. By the time the war was over I was ready to get back to
graduate school and to learn what I could in the fields of thermo-
dynamics and combustion.

We returned to Cambridge in the fall of 1945, and by 1948
graduate study was completed and I was teaching in the graduate
program and learning a little about academic administration. During
the years from 1948 to 1950, the Harvard Graduate School was
in the grip of a quiet but important revolution. The words “applied
science” had come along in the postwar years and Harvard, along
with a number of other engineering schools, was trying to accom-
modate its aims and philosophy to the new look in graduate educa-
tion. It was an exciting place to be, but it was a confusing scene, and
in 1950 an offer to go to the University of Maine looked attractive.

We spent the next seven years in Maine and, like so many people
who migrate into the state, we came to love the place, particularly its
magnificent coast. It’s a special pleasure when we have a chance to
get back there for a visit or a vacation. We arrived in Maine with
four kids, and left with six. College educations began to loom ahead
of us, and every time we multiplied by six we wondered how we’d
make it.

We came back to Tufts where I have been dean of the College of
Engineering. Being a small college it provides the opportunity for
administrative types to teach, and I welcome this. Teaching is one
of the most challenging responsibilities in the world, but it is
equally rewarding, and really very hard to do well.

The opportunities for art and music in Boston are important to
our family, especially my wife who likes both in large doses.

Higher education has an important future role everywhere in the
world, in the developed and underdeveloped nations alike. I drifted
into college administration and teaching in the unsuspecting way
that seems characteristic for most people in this work, and I am glad
I did. I like it, and I like the prospects of the years ahead.

[ 189 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

TRIM pe SOUZA CANAVARRO

 

Born: April 7, 1918, Briarcliff, N.Y. parents: George de Souza Canavarro,
Helen Achilles.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: M.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1943.

marrieD: Mildred Madden, June, 1940, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN: Six,

prep: March 6, 1960, Munich, Germany.

WHILE an undergraduate Canavarro was captain of the squash
team and during his senior year was national intercollegiate squash
champion. He has not been heard from since the time of our Decen-
nial Report when he wrote that he was working on the establish-
ment of the medical center at Morgan Hill, California. He was sur-
vived by his wife and six children.

ARTHUR CANTOR

   

  
  

“

HOME aApprEss: 1 W, 72d St. New York 23, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 234 W. 44th St. New York 36, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[ 190 |

eT TTT
CEE :

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Deborah Rosmarin, Nov. 18, 1951. CHILDREN: David, April 30, 1953;
Jacqueline, June 30, 1955; Michael, May 15, 1959.

occupaTION: Theatrical producer and publicist.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Players Club.

ALL I know is I woke up one morning and it was twenty-five years
later. Now I take saccharin with my coffee, stopped doing the
RCAF exercises after two days and a sprained ligament, and am
amazed at how young policemen are getting. I wish life began at
fifty.

T guess it hasn’t been so bad — but it sure has gone by fast. Right
after I left Harvard, I got a job —I thought it would last forever —
with a short-wave listening post in Princeton, New Jersey. I used to
monitor propaganda broadcasts from the Axis powers to the USS.
Lord Haw Haw of the Nazi radio was my special assignment. He
was the malignant voice of what seemed to be an omnipotent and
endless tyranny; now they are all in the dust. In 1942, I joined the
Air Force for what promised to be an endless tour of duty as a
navigator. I visited my old Air Force training base in Texas last
year. It has gone back to pasture — jets zoom where the old B-17s
used to play.

Somehow, I got into public relations right after World War IL.
I became a press representative for a theatrical producing firm called
The Playwrights Company, later went into business for myself, and
for the next twelve years worked on more than eighty plays. After
watching plays monotonously open and close, I finally realized that
nothing is endless. In 1959, I produced my first play, a Paddy
Chayefsky comedy called “The Tenth Man,” and when it turned
out a hit, became hopelessly addicted to producing more plays.
Some — like “All the Way Home” — won prizes and lost money.
Others — like “A Thousand Clowns” — made money and won no
prizes. Some just plain lost money.

All in all, the theatre has become my major professional activity
— and as a mirror of life in general, simultaneously satisfying and
frustrating, manic and depressive, fiercely profitable one moment and
virulently unrewarding the next.

Between plays, I have fragmented myself in multiple sidelines, all
more or less connected with the entertainment world, and most of
them fun. J] have flown to Paris over a weekend to film a television
show, photographed Khrushchev for Life magazine, sat in smoke-
filled rooms in proxy fights over corporate policies. As a publicist,

[ 191 ]

ep a “Soe Ee lala eaianels

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.4.0

I have transformed several seemingly decent souls into blithering
egomaniacs (almost evervbody believes his clippings! ). As a pro-
ducer, I have read at least a thousand scripts, of which 994 were
worthless. T have learned that most celebrities are just like every-
body else — only worse. There is no doubt that I have shown excel-
lent judgment on occasion; and execrable judgment just as fre-
quently.

I seem to have made one sensible decision, though. In 1951, I mar-
ried a voung lady who has since co-signed mv income tax reports
and my notes at the bank, We have three children who have given
me new respect for my own parents, and have introduced us with
Supersonic speed to PTA. meetings, Gesell, the new math, sibling
rivalry, high fevers at dawn, sleep-ov er dates, the Beatles and private
school bills (my God, I went to Harvard for two years for what it
costs to send my little boy to nursery school for one year! ).

I wish I could j impart some irrefragable truths — it’s just the older
I get, the less I know. We are all of us at the age where the meaning
of life is confused with the meaning of life insurance.

Nevertheless, a few of the ancient verities we were taught a gen-
eration and more ago still ring true. Horatio Alger may have given
way to the guaranteed annual wage, and the rugged individual to the
organization man. But happiness is still not inevitably wedded to the
fast buck, and immortality lingers mostly in the laughter of children.

RONALD ARTHUR CAPONE

   

§ oe
iris a Ad { whe Mb

HOME ADDRESS: 3134 N. Piedmont St, Arlington 7, Va.

oreice aboress: Kirlin, Campbell & Keating, 505 Farragut Bldg., 900 17th
N.W., Washington 6, ID.C. 8» 9 7th St.,
PREPARED Av: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

[ 192 ]

eel

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 19403 LL.B., 1943 (47).

marrieD: Margaret Lodi, Dec. 11, 1943. CHILDREN: Ronald L., Aug. 5, 1945; Jill
E., May 31, 1950.

occupPATION: Attorney; resident partner, Washington office of Kirlin, Camp-
bell & Keating.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.; Harvard Law School Asso-
ciation; District of Columbia Bar Association; Maritime Law Association;
Maritime Administrative Bar Association; Washington Golf & Country
Club; Joseph P. Kennedy Post.

AFTER graduating from college, I attended Harvard Law School,
interrupting my legal education to serve in World War II, as naval
aviator and intelligence officer. In 1947, immediately after receiving
my law degree, I joined the Washington office of Kirlin, Campbell
& Keating, where I have since remained. As previously indicated, I
am resident partner of the firm.

My legal work covers the spectrum of activities in the nation’s
capital, ranging from practice before the various administrative
regulatory agencies, to litigation before all the courts, including the
Supreme Court, as well as lobbying before Congress, primarily on
behalf of corporations, occasionally for individuals. The legal
problems are equally varied and fascinating, covering such matters
as defending criminals gratis on order of the courts, representing
domestic and foreign corporations, international law, international
political matters, requiring travel from coast to coast in the United
States, on occasion to the Far East and Middle East and, in recent
years, one or two trips a year to Europe and the United Kingdom.
Two highlights were: (1) representing the Chinese Nationalist Gov-
ernment in a “barratry” case where the masters and crews of thirteen
vessels defected to the Chinese Communist regime, for which I re-
ceived a decoration, as well as a suitable fee; (2) negotiating a tem-
porary accommodation between the United States and British gov-
ernments, on behalf of United States, British, German, Irish, Belgian,
etc., companies which would otherwise be faced with the impossible
burden of complying with conflicting laws and regulations of each
government in the field of international shipping. The possibility of
confrontation between both governments still exists and the search
still goes on for a long-range permanent solution acceptable to the
United States, the British and our clients.

My wife Meg and two children, bless them, continue to endure
me, on the increasingly rare moments we spend together, and carry
the domestic and civic responsibilities I would otherwise neglect.
Ronald is in his second year at the University of Virginia and, of all

[ 193 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

things, plans to go to law school. Jill is fourteen and, if my wife
prev -ails, will spend a few Vears at Wellesley. If Wellesley still turns
them out in my wife’s mold, the choice will indeed be a good one.

FREDERIC ROY CARLSON

 

HOME appress: 8 Lincoln Circle, Wellesley Hills, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Mount Ida Junior College, Newton, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Weston High School, Weston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938, 1939-1940, 1945-1947. DEGREES: A.B., 1940(47)3
s.M, and EDD. (Boston Univ.), 1951.

marriep: Iry Ruth Lederhos, April 9, 1941. crtprew: Frederic Roy, Jr., Aug.
1, 1944, William Dean, May 14, 1946.

HARVARD SON: William Dean Carlson, ’68.

OccUPATION: President, Mount Ida Junior College.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant colonel, U.S. Army Reserve.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and Palm Beach; Charles River Country
Club, Newton, Mass.; Massachusetts Schoolmasters Club, Phi Delta Kappa,
National Fducation Association, Association for Higher Education

IN 1941 I married a Simmons girl, purchased a home in Wellesley
and settled down just long enough to get my lawn in. Then off to
Miami as swimming instructor at the Air Force Officers Club, but
not for long. Armored Force, OCS, called. I wound up with a tank
platoon in Normandy and managed to hang on until we reached the
Rhine where I was wounded and shipped home.

After the war I returned to Harvard to take courses in history
and government. Then on to Boston University for a Master’s and
doctorate in audio visual education, I taught history at Mount Ida
for awhile and later became vice-president. Four years ago, I took
over as president to begin a long expansion program.

In the meantime Ivy and I have raised two sons: Rick who is a

[ 194]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

junior at University of Rochester and Bill who is a freshman at
Harvard. We were active in the P.T.A., the Unitarian Church,
Little League, Bantam Hockey, Scouts and all the activities demanded
of parents in the Wellesley community, during the years the boys
attended the Wellesley schools.

As we approach the 25th, I still have my hobbies, i.e., photography,
camping and restoring old houses. Also, I still have my hair, my
teeth and eyesight, as well as a little more weight. Instead of be-
coming more conservative in my political and social convictions, as
I have grown older I have become more liberal. I hope and pray the
social revolution that is taking place today can be accomplished with
the least amount of hate and misery, so that the nation can con-

centrate its energies toward working for a better world for all man-
kind.

JOHN COLBY CARPENTER

 

HOME appress: 18 Whiting Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass. 0218r.

OFFICE apprEss: Shelco, Inc., 1253 Highland Ave., Needham, Mass. 02192.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1941. DEGREES: S.B., 1940(41); M.B.A., 1943.

MARRIED: Jane Frances Joyner, Oct. 6, 1943. CHILDREN: Shelley Ann, Jan. 26,
1947; John Colby, Jr., June 25, 1951.

occupaTIon: President, Shelco, Inc., marketing household chemical specialties.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Needham Red Cross Board, 1955-57; member, board
of deacons, Needham Congregational Church, 1959-62.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Boston; Dedham Country & Polo Club; Bucks
Creek Yacht Club.

I NEVER dreamed how difficult it would be to set forth on paper
the highlights of one’s life over a twenty-five-year span in a manner
that might prove of interest to even a few old classmates. I have

[195 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

wrestled with this problem for weeks without success and now I must
frankly admit I have no talent for writing. Hence, I'll give you the
facts, gentlemen — just the facts!

Married: Yes— for more than twenty-one vears to a wonderful
girl whose only major shortcoming is her inability to say “No” to
calls upon her time and talents from church, school, and community
organizations. Her almost complete involvement in such activities
sometimes makes for a rather hectic home life but always an in-
teresting one.

Children? Two — our daughter, Shelley, now nearly eighteen, Is
a senior at Dana Hall, and while maintaining honor roll grades is also
frantically busy with student council, glee club, and a host of other
extracurricular activities. Son, “Buzz,” at thirteen, is in the fifth class

at Rivers Country Day School and combines an avid interest in every
sport with modest but i improving academic achievement. He is also
blessed with a delightful personality and frequently adds much spice
to our lives.

Residences? Several — including a small summer cottage at West
Chatham, Cape Cod, which we acquired ten years ago and where the
family have spent their summers since that time. I sneak down on
weekends and have been known on occasion to stretch them out for
four or five days—or at least I used to. Our winter home has
shifted from Waltham to Needham to Wellesley Hills (eight years
ago) which we find a delightful community well populated with
Harvard alumni.

Jobs: A variety — culminating in the very stimulating one I now
hold. A vear and a half ago I organized Shelco, Inc., to market
household chemical specialties (specifically Jifoam Oven Cleaner)
designed to make the lives of long-suffering housewives a little
easier and more pleasant. Our fledgling company has grown and
prospered to an astonishing extent which has been gratifying indeed,
but concurrently my leisure time has shrunk almost to the vanishing
point!

Avocations: Numerous — golf, bowling, bridge, a very little
skiing, and a keen delight in a large group of wonderful friends who
keep us much too busy, but whose charming company we can’t
resist. We have also managed an active involvement in the affairs of
our church and ina variety of school and civic organizations. Oc-
casionally we do a little traveling to get away from it all.

Outlook: Cheerful—no, I am not unaware of, nor insensitive
to, the deplorable conditions which are so widespread at home and

[ 196 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

abroad — but the many fine people, young and old alike, I con-
tinually encounter both in my business and social life reinforce my
belief that given a chance most men are basically good. How then
do we insure that more and more. men get that chance? I am
confident Harvard and Harvard men everywhere are contributing
importantly to this objective in a variety of ways.

Appearance? Changed — but, then, who would expect other-
wise? [I’ve gotten thicker in the middle (about twenty pounds
worth) and thinner on top (about fifty percent), but I sincerely
hope the change has not been so radical that those who knew me
then will fail to recognize me now. It will be good to see you all
again!

RICHARD SUTCLIFFE CARROLL

 

HOME ApDpRESS: gt Mt. Vernon St., Boston 8, Mass.

_ OFFICE apprEss: Harvard School of Dental Medicine, 188 Longwood Ave., Bos-
ton 15, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. John’s Preparatory School, Danvers, Mass.; Phillips Academy,
Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; A.M., 1946; PH.D., [951.

MARRIED: Joan O’Donnell, May 16, 1953. cHtLp: Jonathan Sleight, Nov. 25,
1957 (died May 12, 1963).

occupation: Educational administration (fund raising); assistant to the Dean
for Planning and Development.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Longwood Cricket Club.

FOR eighteen months after graduation I lingered in Cambridge
doing some writing, starting advanced work in English and then
suddenly cramming a year’s math in a month to get into V-7.
Thereafter, things fall into neat blocks of time: four years in the

[ 197 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Navy, mainly on an assault transport in the Mediterranean and the
Pacitic; several more back at Harvard studying the Puritans and
teaching part-time; fourteen vears working in the general area of
institutional fund raising for Harvard Medical School, John Price
Jones Company, Goucher College, Memorial Sloan-Kettering Can-
cer Center, Yale (!), and now the Harvard School of Dental
Medicine. Superimposed on this has been a period of undeservedly
happy marriage and a brief interlude of fiercely proud parenthood.

A range of experience helps. Having served in both the am-
phibious force and the Navy’s demobilization division during their
initial zany moments of organization, I can never feel thoroughly
confused again. Having lectured on Keats and Shelley to physical
education majors, | have probed the ultimate limits of the educa-
tional process. And, having written everything from a doctoral
dissertation to one-minute spot appeals, I have had my chance to
inflict more lasting damage on the English language than almost any
of my classmates.

I still believe that education needs people to interpret its aims
and raise money for it even more than it needs teachers; dental ed-
ucation is a stirring illustration. I continue to enjoy (with my wife)
watching almost any kind of sports contest, collecting Latin Ameri-
can popular music and traveling practically anywhere, particularly
in the Caribbean, Last summer I finally read Crime and Punishment.

When we returned to Boston recently, after ten years in Balti-
more and New York, I wondered whether we would still understand
OF enjoy it. Happily for us, we do.

MORRIS CARRON

 

HOME ADpaess: 27 Knowles Rd., Worcester, Mass, o1602,
orrice abperss: L. Farber Co, Worcester, Mass, 01603.

[ 198 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

marRiED: Lillian Yanow, Nov. 19, 1940. CHILDREN: Louise Jane, Dec, 3, 1942;
Emily Ruth, April 20, 1947; Michael, Jan. 23, 1951-

HARVARD BROTHER: Sidney Shapiro, ’53, PH.D., °58.

occupaTION: Research and development chemical engineer: leather chemistry,

MEMBER oF: American Chemical Society; Association of Harvard Chemists.

puBLICATIONS: “Equilibrium and Velocity of the Sodium-Hydrogen Exchange
on Carbonaceous Exchangers in Contact with Chloride Solutions,” JACS,
1948; U.S. Patent 2,599,558, June 10, 1952, lon Exchange Regeneration;
“Demineralization of Brackish Waters,” Journal AW .WA., 1952.

TOWARD the end of 1940 came marriage and a job as a production
and control chemist with Eastern Gas & Fuel Associates. Jumping
from theory into actual application of knowledge thereby acquir-
ing some “knowhow” kept me busy—not too busy to sire a
daughter. Eventually I was invited (1944) to take a more active part
in World War II, where as a surgical technician in an evacuation
hospital I took an expense-paid tour of parts of Europe — always
too late to see actual action. V-E day sent us packing — for Japan
—here V-J day interfered — so back to the USA (1945).

A visit to Mallinckrodt Laboratories led to my becoming a private-
research assistant to the late Professor Grinnell Jones — to work on
demineralization of saline waters through proper employment of
ion-exchange materials goal to set up a system, if possible, to
purify water cheaply in Palestine.

The work progressed with sufficient promise — enough promise
that a pilot plant was designed and built here in the “States” and
transported to Palestine for field testing (1947) —also my second
child was born. After five months —I and data returned. Not un-
til after the vote on partition and the establishment of the state of
Israel. .

1948 and Worcester claimed me. Here I’ve been since. [ am a
chemical engineer with L. Farber Company. At long last, a son was
born to the Carrons in 195: — a son who, I hope, will join the group
of Harvard Sons.

Political clubs and parties I’ve not joined. At various times I’ve
voted in primaries to aid an individual who, I felt, deserved to be a
candidate: then down to City Hall to join again the ranks of the
independents. I will admit to a preference for the Democratic Party
— and have voted for all Democratic presidential candidates, Roose-
velt through Kennedy, and will definitely vote for LBJ come elec-

tion day, 1964.
[199 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

I've been an instructor at Temple Emanuel (Worcester) for the
past twelve vears, but have resigned to have my weekends free to
enjoy family and necessary chores.

Looking about the land, I see a feeling of fear and pessimism as
exemplified by the Birchers, the criticism of the “outs” and the
answers of the “ins.” I was optimistic in my last report — I am
optimistic now — I shall always be optimistic. I shall continue to
hope that man will finally learn to live with man and that “it shall
come to pass” as the prophets of old predicted.

CLIFTON BUELL CARTER

 

HOME ApprEsS: 4201 Shannon Drive, Fort Worth, Texas.

oFFice apprEss: P.O. Box 9028, Fort Worth, Texas.

preparen aT: R. L. Paschal High School, Fort Worth, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 19403 LL.B. 1943 (47).

OCCUPATION: Attorney,

OFFicEs HELD: Trustee and secretary, Harvard Law School Association of New
York, 1949-54; director, Harvard Law School Association of Texas, 1956-
1959; director, Community Council of Fort Worth, Texas, 1960-63.

MEMBEB oF: American Bar Association; State Bar of Texas; Tarrant County
Bar Association; Fort Worth Club; Harvard Clubs of New York and
Boston, Downtown Association of New York, Ridglea Country Club, Fort
Worth, International Club of Houston, Texas.

RECENTLY I made a pilgrimage to Boston and Cambridge and
could not but reflect on the past twenty-five years. I had flown to
New York in two hours and twenty minutes; my first flight to Texas
while in college took fourteen hours. Our tuition at that time was
$400, today it is $1,760, One has difficulty recognizing the part of
Leverett House in which | lived, although I suspect that the physical

[ 200 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

changes have not materially affected the life of the student and the
core of teaching at Harvard —I hope.

I trust that there is the same incentive for students to seek to
make a contribution to society. Each of us has his own goal, which I
think was greatly enhanced during the days at college. So, my re-
flections cause pause as to my own life during these twenty-five

ears. .

World War II was an excursion between the first and second
years at Harvard Law and it took me to duty with the Air Corps in
the War Department in Washington and then tours in the CBI and
various bases in the States. The experience and travel are known to
most of us and need not be the source of further comment.

Upon graduation at Harvard Law, I became associated with
Mudge, Stern, Williams & Tucker (now Nixon, Mudge, Guthrie &
Alexander) in New York, where I had the privilege of working
with interesting people and intricate problems but, having resigned
after seven years to return to practise in ‘Texas, | now wonder if the
assistance given to the “average” client has not been more satisfying
than the participation in the more lucrative and demanding practice.

One interlude while I was in New York was a “command invita-
tion” to return to the Air Force during the Korean Conflict. |
was stationed with the Headquarters of the Air Force in Europe at
Wiesbaden. This did afford an opportunity for extensive travel in
Europe and Africa, though I must admit that it was a year and a half
that could have been more profitably spent in my profession.

While in New York I had a great deal of pleasure working with
the Law School placement problem, and I am happy to see that some
of the reforms that were initiated then now appear to have been ac-
cepted by a number of other schools and bar associations. Several
years as a director of the Community Council in Fort Worth brought
to my attention the many needs of our communities, as well as a
considerable understanding of the strong “anti-federal interference”
feeling in this part of the country. My activity with the Harvard
Fund has permitted me to renew friendships with classmates, which
has been a pleasant experience.

By the time this is published, the election will be history, but I
am considerably heartened by the fact that Texas is becoming more
of a two-party state on the local as well as the national level.

If the next twenty-five years move as rapidly as the past twenty-
five, I am certain that our reports will have more of the benefit of
automation and perhaps a bit less of the experience of hindsight.

[ 201 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

THOMAS WINN CASEY

 

HOME appress: 44 Sylvan Ave., West Newton, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Gillette Safery Razor Co., Gillette Park, Boston 6, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

Marniep: Jean Henry, July 6, 1946. cHILpREN: Marguerite, May 20, 1947; Pam-
ela, Sept. 22, 1948; Thomas Winn, Jr, Sept. 25, 1951; Georgia, Feb. 5,

1956; Sheila, March 10, 1939; John F, Dec. 21, 1960 (died Dec. 24, 1960);
Robert, April 16, 1962.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Francis Casey, ‘38 (deceased); Edward McDermott
Casev, "44; George William Casey, ’45; William Frederick Casey, °48
(deceased).

occupatioN: Vice-president — sales, Gillette Safety Razor Company, respon-
sible for sales of razors, blades and men’s toiletries in United States,
Member oF: Hatherly Country Club, Scituate, Mass.; Harvard Club of Boston.

AT the time of graduation I didn’t really know what I was suited
to do in life, or even what I wanted to do in life. Now, twenty-
five years later, I feel very fortunate to be able to report that my
activities have proven to be stimulating, challenging, and satisfying.

As with many of us, service during World War II was my first
extended experience in a working situation which included exposure
to all tvpes of people and a wide variety of situations. I found I
liked the Army —largely because I liked working with people.
I was fortunate to lead a rather active Army life with a combat unit
that went all the way from Australia in February, 1942, to Japan
in September, 1945. Because of the attrition of senior officers in
the unit and lack of senior replacements from the States, many of
us were advanced rapidly to positions of considerable responsibility
at a fairly tender age. The experience gained in working with and
managing people was invaluable,

[ 202 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After two and a half years as a commercial real estate broker —
where I missed working as a member of a large organization — |
again found a home, this time in the sales department of the Gillette
Company. While the differences between the Army and a sizable
sales organization are apparent, I found one point of great similarity.
Both are concerned with the selection, training, motivation, and
direction of people. It is a career which I have found stimulating,
challenging, on occasion frustrating, but always active, moving,
changing, and for me interesting. It has carried us from Boston to
Grand Rapids, to New York, to Boston, to Atlanta, to Chicago,
and back to Boston again; and through a variety of positions from
sales order clerk to salesman, to district manager, regional manager,
headquarters staff jobs, general sales manager, new products man-
ager, to my present spot.

Apart from business, which seems to have occupied a very large
part of my waking hours over the twenty-five years, my other
principal and continuing interest has been my family.

Here, too, we enjoy variety, with our eldest—a daughter —
about to enter college and our youngest — a son — with two more
years to wait before he enters kindergarten. Sometimes I think we
have four families instead of one because of the different interests
and activities of the different age groups and sexes.

Between business and family I must confess I have found little
time to keep up to date on local, national, and international issues,
let alone find time enough to post myself thoroughly on say Vietnam
so that I can intelligently advise President Johnson on how to handle
the situation. Short of a crisis of the magnitude of Korea, the Suez
Canal, or Cuba, Mr. Johnson has to get along without my advice.
He has plenty of full-time advisers with the time, brains, and infor-
mation necessary to handle the job, but I have found that if I don’t
attend to my business and family no one else will.

[ 203 ]

Ne TT ei ETT aa neRe SRA es sc

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

FLORINDO LAWRENCE CATELLA

  

HOME ADDRESS: 121 E. Main St, Milford, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 60 State St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Milford High School, Milford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREE: Associate degree in Accounting (Bentley
. Coll.), 1960.

MarRIED: Phyllis M. Moriarty, Aug. 9, 1941. cutLp: Francesca M., Feb. 3, 1950.
occuPATION: Public accounting; senior accountant.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Society of Certified Public Accountants, Inc. (as-
sociate member).

YES, mv first step into the Yard was the first step to a medical career.
Hopes and ideals were high. Success was but to put in the time,
study and reach for the plum. Then the paw of financial disaster
reaches out and sweeps all before it. Since then the saga is replete
with frustration, topped off by prolonged illness; but still the hope
for the future persists.

Departure from Harvard meant taking over a badly tottering food
business, rebuilding it and, finally, abandoning it in 1960. Meanwhile
Pearl Harbor meant a four-year interruption — personal desires
side-tracked — mild success in the guise of a stateside Air Force
desk with the abbreviations first lieutenant — discharge in 1946. The
war was over. But was it? Formosa—yes. But Korea: “Greet-
ings!” Disaster revisited! Free again in ’51. Then came family
illness which persists to this day. This account sounds curt? Who
will read a narrative of darkness?

Oh yes, the brighter side. Phyl and I were married in 1941. Fran
came to us in 1950. What greater joy? The year 1956 brought an
end to chasing medicine and an introduction to the accounting pro-

fession via night school culminating with graduation from Bentley
College of Accounting and Finance in 1960. T now hold a very

[ 204]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

enjoyable position as a senior accountant with Spark, Mann &
Company, CPA’s, Boston. I’m working for certification in the field
and hope the next Report will carry this information.

The future looks bright. Medical science has assured me that the
illness in my home will be short-lived. I thank God for the patience
of Job, for the shoulders to carry the burden and for the burning
desire to achieve.

It has been said that adversity molds character in one’s counte-
nance. Look closely at above photo. Don’t you detect it?

HENRY PATRICK CAULFIELD, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6625 31St St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20015.

OFFICE apprEss: Office of the Secretary, Dept. of the Interior, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Hollywood High School, Hollywood, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1938-1940. DEGREES: S.B., Cv? laude, 1940; M.P.A., 1949.

MarrieD: Patricia Laird, Oct. 6, 1940 (divorced 1955): Violet Green, April 30,
1956. CHILDREN: Deborah Ann, Jan. 11, 1958; Laura Elizabeth, Sept. 21,
1959; Mary Francis, Dec. 26, 1961; Henry Patrick, 3d, Sept. 26, 1964.

occupaTion: Director, Resources Program Staff, Office of the Secretary, De-
partment of the Interior.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Williams College, Williamstown, Mass.; research asso-
ciate, Resources for the Future, Inc., Washington, D.C.

MEMBER oF: American Economic Association; American Political Science As-
sociation; American Historical Association; American Society for Public
Administration,

PUBLICATIONS: Articles and government publications.

STABILITY of professional interest, but basic change in domestic
life as indicated above, basically characterize my life since our
Fifteenth Anniversary Report. Professional interest in natural re-
source policies and programs, which began in July, 1951, with

[ 205 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

employment as an economist in the Office of the Secretary of the
Interior, has continued and deepened. Leaving Interior in Septem-
ber, 1955, I became a research associate with Resources for the
Future, Inc., a research foundation supported by the Ford Founda-
tion. My early research there led to what became an intense interest
in the historical origins of federal natural resource policies, particu-
larly federal electric power policy.

When called to the New Frontier in February, 1961, as assistant
director, Resources Program Staff, Office of the Secretary of the
Interior, a manuscepr covering my historical findings was some two-
thirds complete. As director of the staff, since July, 1963, I have
been, in effect, chief of Secretary L. Udall’s immediate professional
staff. Inspired bv his great w ill to deal with The Quiet Crisis of
our times, and driven by his indefatigable pace to what sometimes
seems the outer limits of my physical, intellectual and emotional
endurance, I have no doubt that I am now in the most productive
years of my life (in every way!). When, in its closing months, the
88th Congress enacted many bills which inspired the name, “Con-
servation Congress,” I along with many others felt great personal
satisfaction.

Someday, I hope to return to completion of “my book” and to
horseback riding, fishing and other enjoyment of the out-of-doors,
which Interior is promoting aggressively for others, but which I must
now largely forego.

+ JOHN LAWRENCE CAULFIELD

 

Bown: July 4, 1917, Roxbury, Mass. panents: Martin Joseph Caulfield, May
Lennon.

preparep AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.
{ 206 j

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.
piep: Killed in action, June 16, 1944, in France.

JOHN LAWRENCE CAULFIELD attended the University of
New Hampshire before entering Harvard. In March, 1942, he en-
listed as a private in the Infantry of the U.S. Army, was commis-
sioned a second lieutenant six months later, promoted to first lieu-
tenant in January, 1943, and went overseas the following November.
He was killed in action in France and was survived by his parents,
three sisters and a brother.

ALFRED DUPONT CHANDLER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 211 Highfield Rd., Baltimore 18, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of History, Johns Hopkins University, Baltimore 18, Md.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940, AM.,
1947; a.m. (Univ. of North Carolina), 1951; pHv. (Harvard Univ.), 1952.

MaRRIED: Fay Martin, Jan. 8, 1944. CHILDREN: Alpine Douglass, Dec. 30, 1945;
Mary Morris, Sept. 20, 1948; Alfred Dupont, 3d, May 2, 19513 Howard
Martin, Dec. 3, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Ramsay Chandler, ’46.

occupation: Professor of history, Johns Hopkins University; editor of Dwight
D, Eisenhower Papers.

OFFICES HELD: Research associate, 1950-51, instructor, 1951-53, assistant pro-
fessor, 1953-58, associate professor, 1958-62, professor of history, 1962-
63, chairman, History Section, 1962-63, Massachusetts Institute of Tech-
nology; professor of history, Johns Hopkins University, since 1963; re-
search fellow, Harvard University, 1953; consultant, U.S. Naval War Col-
lege, 1954; consulting historian to Alfred P. Sloan, 1956-58; Guggenheim
Fellow, 1958-59; trustee, Park School, Brookline, 1957~63 (chairman, 1961-
63), Brookline Public Library, 1959-63, Business History Foundation, since
1958; member, executive committee, Association for Higher Education,

[ 207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ryhi-63; editor, Forces in American Economic Growth series for Har-
court. Brace & World, since 1963; member, editorial board, Business His-
tory Review, 1954-40, Explorations in Entrepreneurial History, since 1963.

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association; Economic History Association;
Mississippi Valley Historical Association; Association for Higher Educa-
tion: Guana Island Club; Harvard Club of New York; Nantucket Yacht
Club; St. Botolph Club. |

puesuications: Henry Varnum Poor, 1956; Strategy and Structure, 1962 (won
Newcomen Award, 1964); Giant Enterprise, 1964; The Railroads: The
Nation's First Big Business, 1965; assistant editor, The Letters of Theodore
Roosevelt, four vols. 1952-54; chapters or essays in Men in Business,
1952, The Dictionary of American Biography, 1956, Post War Economic
Trends, 1960, Major Crises in American History, 1962.

FRANKLY I was a little taken aback by your admonition not to
write for posteritv. When else? The opportunity is after all one of
the pleasant luxuries a Harvard attendance affords. And in writing
for posterity I am going to stress an old cliché. Luck does count.

In looking forward, in past years, to writing this report, I could
hardly avoid considering the possibility of no report, no reunion
and no other of the normal expected patterns of life. But we did
make it. As clearly, too, survival resulted from more than mere
luck, much as luck has helped. As a historian with much to learn
about the present age, I do give high credit to all the men who made
the decisions that made the difference. Their keen awareness of
the realities of the present age and commitments to basic values did
much to get us through.

So much for posterity on that level. As to career, family, war
record and all, luck certainly played a part here too. Most im-
portantly it helped me avoid many of the traps our culture sets for
us, or at least the common variety of upper middle eastern types of
traps. I am still uncertain how the undergraduate years helped in
trap avoiding. They still seem to have been pretty inadequate,
though somewhere along the line Harvard at Jeast encouraged an
essential intellectual curiosity and concern. The war was a much

more valuable experience. My war was a soft one. Yet it did
demand working closely and effectively with a lot of people and so
helped to bring into perspective the narrowness of my undergradu-
ate attitudes and values. Graduate work after the war presented
another Harvard, one that was just great. While courses were only
fair, my colleagues were outstanding. There was an enthusiasm and

Vitality in Cambridge in those postwar years that ] have not seen
since in the academic world,

[ 208 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Not only was I fortunate in the timing of graduate work (how
different it would have been in the ’z0s, the ’30s or ’4os), but I was
as lucky in my first job which involved assisting in the editing of
The Letters of Theodore Roosevelt and teaching at M..T. A close
acquaintance with T.R. was a fine way to pick up an understanding
of high-level decision making and of the ways of the political process,
even though my major interest remained economic history. And
the-M.LT. students were good. Once convinced of the value of
coming to know the world which they realized they were going to
run, they worked as hard as any embryonic historian two miles up
the Charles.

Luck continued. I had a chance to work with Arthur Cole at the
Research Center for Entrepreneurial History, certainly the most
rewarding intellectual experience I received from Harvard. Then
came the opportunity to prepare and teach a course in basic national
strategy to senior captains at the Naval War College in Newport, a
particularly pleasing task for one who had spent close to five years
in the lower naval ranks. Another piece of luck came two years
later when Alfred P. Sloan asked me to work with him on his auto-
biography. This inside view of General Motors— followed by
comparable studies of du Pont, Jersey Standard and Sears — per-
mitted the writing of Strategy and Structure. That book in turn
led to an invitation from Johns Hopkins to teach recent American
history and to edit the papers of General Eisenhower.

The move involved some costs. Baltimore is further from the
Square than Brookline. I had to find a co-author if I was to finish on
schedule a biography of Pierre du Pont, the founder of the modern
du Pont Company. The magnum opus on the history of American
business had to be put aside. Yet the chance to be one of the first
into a new era of American history and to take part in a first-rate
graduate program in history made the choice easy and again re-
minded me that luck does count.

My greatest piece of luck, however, came long ago when Fay
Martin agreed to marriage.

[ 209 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ALLEN LEONARD CHASE

 

HOME ApprEss: 1460 Southdown Rd., Hillsborough, Calif.

OFFICE ADpREss: General Distributors, 860 Mahler Rd., Burlingame, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: AB, cum laude, 1940.

Marriep: Janet Rubensohn, July 9, 1940 (divorced 1957); Joan Gunzburger,
July 8, 1958. compren: Gary Andrew, Jan. 5, 1945; Randy, March 26,
1947; Candy, Sept. 13, 1951.

HARVARD SoN: Gary Andrew Chase, ’66.

OCCUPATION: Sales manager, General Distributors, distribution and warehousing.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of San Francisco (Schools and Scholarship Com-
mittee).

I THINK I have been putting off writing this until the third re-
minder from Peter Pratt because it is somewhat of a task to face
up to twenty-five years gone past and ask oneself what really
happened during it all.

In practical terms, I have accumulated a family replete with wife,
three children, one poodle, assorted responsibilities, and much
pleasure.

Formerly a confirmed apartment-dwelling New Yorker, I moved
to California in 1958 and became converted to the pleasantness of
house living in the San Francisco Bay Area. I had been in the manu-
facturing business in the East for fifteen years before making this
move. It turned out to be a fortunate one for I find my present
work stimulating and always a challenge, and the western way of life
to be good.

In terms of the inner man, many changes have occurred. The
struggle, I believe, is to grow as a person with the years, so that there
is some correlation between emotional and chronological age. It is
indeed a struggle and one which I have long been engaged in, not

{210 ]

nan szansineineeadapntiaenneaaetenastaaaataaas . a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

always successfully I am afraid.

In this difficult and uncertain world, where values are shrouded
in doubt, I have tried to formulate my own and not attach signifi-
cances based only on others’ say so. I have tried to resist conformity
and the stereotyped thought patterns of the group. This may not
be the most practical approach to life but no other would do for me.

To give life any real meaning at all, I have tried to develop as a
person and attempted to look for truth. “Veritas” is indeed a noble
motto.

PETER JASPERSEN CHENERY

i

 

HOME appREss: 50 Beverly Drive, Durham, N.C. 27707.

OFFICE apprEss: North Carolina Science & Technology Research Center, Re-
search Triangle Park, Durham, N.C.

PREPARED AT: Memorial High School, Pelham, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarRiED: Faeth Rider-Hall, Nov. 22, 1941. CHILDREN: Peter Taylor, June 20,
1942 (m. Anna Synowicz, Aug. 17, 1963); Gilbert Rider, May 24, 1946;
Mary Faeth, Dec. 4, 1948.

occupation: Director, North Carolina Board of Science and Technology, a
state agency concerned with the development of scientific resources and
capabilities.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Board of Education, Town of Pelham, N.Y., 1953-54;
secretary, 1957-58, vice-president, 1959-60, president, 1960-61, Harvard
Club of North Carolina; vice-president, 1961-63, president, 1963-64, Better
Health Foundation, Durham.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers; Tobaccoland
Kiwanis (Durham); Durham Power Squadron; Hope Valley Country
Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Five patents, four for aircraft flight control systems and one
for a textile machine.

AFTER twenty-one years as an engineer and manager in what is

[ 211 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

now the aerospace industry, preceded by two years at M.I.T., and
interrupted by two vears in the Navy, I have moved into the oppo-
sition camp of government. As director, for the past year, of the
newly-created North Carolina Board of Sciences and Technology,
Iam finding the transition both challenging and fascinating.

Remaining in Boston after Commencement to finish primar
flight training (remember the C.P.T.?), I moved down the Charles
to teach Air Force cadets about weather instruments. In my second
year at M.I-T., I became involved in a defense research project, and
married Faeth Rider-Hall of Hingham. The project took us to New
York where, after a few years of helping to manufacture naval
weapons and a stint in the } Navy, I returned to my original interest,
the automatic control and navigation of aircraft. Here we stayed
twelve vears, living in Pelham, New York, where I had grown up.

Our southward progress resumed in 1954 when we were trans-
ferred to Durham, North Carolina. With three major universities
within a half-hour drive, we found not only hospitality and friend-
ship but also a stimulating environment with a range of academic
and cultural activities not often found in larger cities. The area
bounded by the cities of Raleigh, Durham, and Chapel Hill is now
known as the Research Triangle. With 350,000 inhabitants, some
25,000 of them university students, the area is still free of the urban

blight which is slowly poisoning the upper Atlantic coast of this
country.

North Carolina is a state of contrasts, economic and geographic.
Reaching from the Appalachian mountains to the sea, this most-
highly-industrialized state in the South is also heavily dependent on
agriculture for its livelihood. It is the aim of the government, through
the agency which I direct, to help in the orderly transition from
unskilled and labor-intensive occupations toward a stronger and
more diversified economy making full use of the scientific innova-
tions and technological developments of recent years. It is a tre-
mendous job, and I find my part in it very enjoyable.

As a family, we are now firmly rooted in Durham and the pro-
gressive South. Our daughter shows an inclination toward New
England for college, hopefully Radcliffe; our sons preferred North
Carolina. I am greatly indebted to Harvard for my exposure to first-
rate works and workers, both in the physical sciences and through-
out the range of the learned disciplines; I hope that at least one of
my children will have the same opportunity “to sit side by side with
those on whose shoulders we stand.”

[212 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL WHITON CHERINGTON

 
   

MAILING ADDRESS: 9 Coolidge Hill Rd., Cambridge 38, Mass,

EDMUND STEVENS CHILDS

  

YB,
HOME AppRESs; 169 Wenonah Rd., Longmeadow, Mass. o1106.
OFFICE ApprEss: DeBell & Richardson, Inc., Hazardville, Conn. 06036.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarRiED: Anne Bemis Schlesinger, May 23, 1942. CHILDREN: Joanne Bemis,
Feb. 10, 1944; Suzanne Hanson, Sept. 22, 1947; Dianne Schlesinger, Oct. 2,
1950; Edmund Stevens, 3d, July 6, 1952. .

OCCUPATION: Staff member, DeBell & Richardson, Inc., concentrating in product
and marketing analysis with project supervision and management responsi-
bilities.

OFFICES HELD: Director and president, Western New England Section, Society
of Plastic Engineers, in early ’50’s; deacon, First Church of Christ, Long-
meadow, 1961-63; assistant coach, Little League baseball team and as-
sistant Scoutmaster and troop committeeman, Boy Scouts, three years;

[ 213 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940
contact at Longmeadow High School for the Springfield Harvard Club
Schools and Scholarship Committee.

MEMBER OF: Springfield Ski Club; Moose Mountain Rod and Gun Club; Na-
tional Model Railroad Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Several talks before trade groups with articles resulting in the
trade press.

MY FAMILY —I comment on them first as in 1960 I made the
decision to place their interests ahead of my career. My wife, a
Springfield, Massachusetts, native, caught me after a year of enjoy-
able bach’ing in the area. Life with her is a highly pleasurable ex-
perience improving with time. We started out in a Cambridge
apartment, graduated after a year to a converted celery cellar in
Lexington, where we stayed for the duration of World War II.
Our first child, a vegetable garden, 6:45 AM. walks to the B&M, a
one-hundred-vard drive to shovel are memorable activities of the
era along with a hunting incident that occurred a few days after
we moved into our country estate. Searching for pheasants early on
a frosty November morn with my father and a hunting companion
of many years, I swung under a sand bank on top of which stood
the bungalow of my new next-door neighbor that I hadn’t yet met.
Seeing hunters so close to his abode, he strode out in his pajamas
and robe to demand we depart. Whereupon my father’s crusty com-
panion yelled back, “Go on back to bed you bald-headed old b--d
before you catch pneumonia.” To avoid detection I pulled up my
collar, pulled down my cap, and hustled away. It wasn’t until
several sunny sidelawn sessions later that the truth came out. Thanks
to a good sense of humor, Harold remained a friendly neighbor.
With Hiroshima, we set plans to return to Springfield. After a
year in a rented second-floor flat, we were transferred to Cincinnati.
Fond farewells prompted conception of daughter number two,
who later contributed visibly to my wife’s discomfort in the un-
accustomed heat, humidity, and undesirable rented quarters located
midway between B&O and New York City mainlines and, when
the wind was unfavorable, within proximity of Gilbey’s midwestern
gin mill. Marvelous hospitality of native friends soothed my wife’s
discontent until we were lucky to get promoted back to Springfield,
where we have lived happily since. We outgrew our first house
when number four and first son arrived, and moved on Christmas
Eve to our present estate. It's been fun seeing the kids grow up,
with only minor frustrations trying to comprehend teen-age in-
terests, hairdos, objectives, and morality. I’m maddened by high

[214 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

schoolers’ general lack of respect for elders, observable in many of
their activities.

While the kids were young we vacationed on the Connecticut
shore, which 1s not Cape Cod but offered good sun, sand, water, sail-
ing, fishing, clams, lobsters, and sociability. Reunions have been
few with ’40, but we look forward to football weekends in Cam-
bridge and New Haven, occasional crew races at New London, and
other excuses to enjoy our Boston area family and friends.

Daughter Joni is great, she’s done well all through school, has
worthwhile interests, is aggressively active and constructive in her
several activities; her insatiable appetite has been a despair to her
mother; she’s currently a senior at Boston University in education;
last summer she was a junior Peace Corps trainee and in 1965 will be
in Nigeria unless some strong-willed male redirects her interests.

Suzie at seventeen is our personality gal, friendly, smiling, with
lots of friends and a carefree attitude; she’s well coordinated, skis
like a bird soars and can do well what she wants to; our problem —
getting her mind on longer-range targets; a junior in high school
with hopes for a ski-area college; she’ll have to sharpen up to make
it.

Dede at fourteen is a long, lean blonde addicted to hair-over-the-
eye-peck-a-boo hair styles that aggravate her mother and me; as
number three gal she has her problem getting a fair shake and keep-
ing us content; a high school freshman, she’d rather talk on the tele-
phone about boys and watch television than do homework; she talks
as much as and faster than her grandmothers which is something,

but we’re sure she’ll turn out to be a pride and joy.

Son Steve is twelve, a seventh-grader, probably spoiled; he has a
long way to go to qualify for Harvard’s standards; I hope he makes
it; he’s well coordinated, favoring football, basketball, and baseball,
long, lean, and light like his old man; his interests, aside from the
Giants and Yankees, haven’t gelled in promising directions yet
despite prodding on Boy Scouts, outdoor sports, Sunday School,
models of any kind, extracurricular school activities, and household
chores. .

Wife Anne is busier than a beaver; she’s on more committees and
a member of more groups than I can keep track of; after being
pushed into golf, she’s having a great time with many fun gals;
she’s been nine-hole champ twice and graduates to eighteen holes
next year with Steve no longer home for lunch; she has many good
friends in the area, is near her folks, is enjoying her family and life;

[215 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

her sense of humor amazes and delights me regularly; like the rest
of us, she'd like to get away from it all more frequently; I've enjoyed
her immensely.

MY CARFER—For tw enty-three and a half years Monsanto's
Plastics Division was good to me. Since a World War IE stint in
maintenance, construction, and engineering design at the Everett
Plant (deferred from military service due to essential nature of
work), I had one year in sales development, one year in field sales,
five vears as assistant manager of production development, seven
years as sales manager of polyethy lene, and three years as director
of Marketing Fome-Cor Corporation, an affiliate company. With
the switch of the Plastics Division headquarters to St. Louis in 1960
I declined to go and declined again in 1963, so we parted company.
After three months of intensive searching and some consulting I
decided to stay in plastics, joining DeBell & Richardson, a 160-man
R&D organization with an enviable reputation and steady growth
history. “T anticipate that my usual conscientious efforts will con-
tribute to the future growth of this concern as we satisfy existing
clients and new ones with successful developments accomplished
expeditiously at relatively low cost. Our clients are world-wide and
their names look like Fortune’s soo list. Harvard’s training was a
significant contribution to my early progress.

TRAVELS — Business travel has carried me over most of the
United States and Canada. I don’t enjoy travel for travel’s sake.
Our first vacation out of the States occurred this spring — ten days
in Jamaica. I don’t think I'll ever get Anne on a Sailfish again after
hitting a coral mushroom dead center at full speed.

HosBies — Outdoor activities of all kinds: golf, hunting, skiing,
sailing, swimming, fishing, even yard work. I get pleasure from
time spent with the Little League, Boy Scouts, church young
people’s groups, etc. Reading is largely business-related with scarcely
time for Sports Illustrated, Life, and Newsweek.

SOCIAL activities — Modest. My wife has many good friends
that we enjoy being with for dinner and cards or groups. I find
my schedule too full for much time with “the boys.” We try
to get out one night per week or entertain, infrequently during the
week, We enjoy a weekend evening together.

POLITICAL — I'm fundamentally against Kennedy’s brand of so-
cialism, government-managed economy and deficits, but have a
difficult time understanding where to draw the line with the post-
war record of growth. I usually vore Republican. This year ’m

[216 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in a quandary; I think LBJ is a crook, Humphrey looks like the best
VP choice, Goldwater seems irresponsible and imprudently con-
servative in today’s managed world economy, Miller leaves me cold;
I wish McNamara were running. Massachusetts is a mess, so I hope
Volpe gets in to bring more fiscal responsibility. To take personal
constructive steps takes more time than I can afford. I support
foreign aid to needy nations, particularly at the grass roots level
and for education.

RFLIGIOUS CONVICTIONS — ‘They are not as firm as they might
be with the time I devote to church. A little religion is un-
doubtedly a good thing and necessary part of a full life. The Boy
Scout Oath and Law are examples of the type of religion I compre-
hend. My scientific training causes me to question the Bible version
of the earth’s and man’s creation and evolution. However, I do feel
that time spent by young people in Bible study, fellowship groups,
etc., is worth-while experience that they are the better for experienc-
ing. Thus, my support of the church is stimulated more by a desire
to set an encouraging example for my children than from any feeling
of personal need.

With three daughters I am sincerely concerned about morality
of young people in particular and dismayed by the widespread public
display of immoral inducements. If exposure to the principles of the
church will supply a restraining force to delay an immoral act,
I’m all for it.

STRATTON CHRISTENSEN

 

Born: March 13, 1919, Charleston, S.C. parents: Niels Christensen, Katherine
Stratton.
PREPARED AT: Lenox School, Lenox, Mass.

[217 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: S.B., 1940.
prep: Lost at sea, May 2, 1942.

AFTER graduation Christensen entered politics and became one of
the youngest state legislators in the history of southern politics.
In 1941 he enlisted in the Navy, received a commission and was as-
sioned to the Cythera, a converted yacht. He left for sea duty in
the spring of 1942 and the following June was reported missing and
presumed lost at sea. He was survived by a sister.

ROBERT HOVEY CLAPP

 

HOME ADpREss: 51 Wingate Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Roxbury Carpet Co., 2 Central St., Somerville, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1940.

marriep: Barbara Furber, Sept. 12, 1941. CHILDREN: Martha, July 2, 1947; Nancy,
March 19, 1949; Roger Crowell, Dec, 26, 1953.

occupation: Vice-president for purchasing and secretary, Roxbury Carpet

Company.
oFFices HELD: Director, Roxbury Carpet Company and subsidiaries, chairman,
Fiber Committee, American Carpet Institute.

MEMBER OF: Boston Wool Trade Association; Unitarian Society of Wellesley.

DURING World War II, I served as the executive and command-
ing officer of an Engineer Combat Battalion attached to the Third
Army in the European Theatre, returning home in January, 1946.
Since that time I have worked in the “Wool Trade” in Boston and
for the Roxbury Carpet Company which has plants in Massachu-
setts and Chattanooga, Tennessee. In recent years, carpet manu-
facturing has occupied all of my business time and most of my

{218 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

energies — the carpet industry currently being an outstanding ex-
ample of bitter and non-profitable competition,

In Wellesley, my interests, aside from home and friends, have
been centered in the Unitarian Church and Little League baseball,
in both of which I believe wholeheartedly. My most enjoyable
hours and days without question have been spent with my family
and friends in our summer home at the head of Buzzards Bay on the
Cape — sailing, swimming, walking or just looking at the sea.

BAYARD STOCKTON CLARK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3401 34th PL, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20016.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Urban Training Center, 40 Ashland Ave., Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Germantown, Philadelphia, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; B.D. (Virginia Theological
Seminary), 1945. .
MarrieD: Charlotte Cheever Cushwa, June 21, 1941. CHILDREN: Katharine
Conger, Dec. 15, 1942; William Tucker, June 25, 1945; Bayard Stockton,
Jr-, Jan. 23, 1947; George Rockwood and Franklin Taylor (twins), Jan.

31, 1949; Nathaniel Brooks, Nov. 19, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Winslow Clark, 742.

occuPATION: Clergyman (in-training), Urban Training Center; Canon, Wash-
ington Cathedral.

OFFICES HELD: Rector, St. Bartholomew’s Church, Nashville, Tenn., St. Michael’s
Church, Houston, Christ Church, Cape Girardeau; assistant, St. Peter’s
Church, St. Louis; Bishop and member of Council, Diocese of Tennessee,
1957-60; vice-president, Ministerial Association, 1960; chairman, Depart-
ment of College Work— Tennessee, 1958-60; vice-president, Ministerial
Alliance (president elect), Houston, 1954-55, president, in Cape Girardeau,
1948-49; fellow of College of Preachers, 1954; vice-president, Family and
Child Service Association— Tennessee, 1955-60; Washington: chairman,
Christian Work among International Students (Council of Churches Com-
mittee), 1964 member, Public Issues Committee (National), Family Serv-

[219 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ice Association, 1963-65, member, Board of National Conference of Chris-
tians and Jews, 1964, trustee, Experiment in International Living, 1964
(chairman, Washington Council, 1963-64); president, Forum on Public
Education, Houston, 1954-35.

Member OF: Harvard Club of Washington.

puBLICATIONS: Book reviews for Religion and Life Magazine; series of articles
for Modern Maturity Magazine; “Phillips Brooks in Biography,” article in
Episcopal Historical Magazine.

“HELL,” said some wag, “is truth seen too late!” Eighty-five per
cent of the people who have ever lived on the earth are living now.
Why didn’t somebody tell me this? At least before I sired five chil-
dren over sixteen and one who is about eight (if I’m not wrong).
We Clarks don’t want to get in anybody’s way — certainly not as
grossly as the Smiths and the Joneses. But it’s just a little late now,
damn it.

There are other ways I've been a little late. In college, I thought
Conant was all wet about urging America to get into the war. At
our Twentieth I thought Stillman was nuts wearing that gigantic
“Kennedy” button, “Too young a candidate,” I said. “He’s our
age!” I came around — almost too late.

Our decade in college was not noted for radical activities. Only
one half of one per cent of the four million high school and college
kids were in radical activities. If you remember, all we did was to
have Sally Rand for a “smoker”; advertise a sex lecture in Old
Lecture Hall by Dr. Have-A.-Child; take part in one of the last
decent riots; and pay back our debutante debts with a “small” (750)
guests cocktail party in D-12 Lowell. At least that had some results:
it added another parietal rule to whatever Decalogue they’re featur-
ing now at college. A few Choate guys got suspended (Avery
Dulles was with them that evening — but he’s flying straight now).

Where have we been? In St. Louis, Cape Girardeau, Missouri,
Houston, Texas, Nashville, Tennessee, and Washington, D.C. (about
five years in each state), We have five boys and one child of the

other sex. I’ve been starting off new churches for the most part.
In Missouri we dedicated a Parish House for “all people” and then
had a restriction put on it, which we battled through. In Houston
we hit the McCarthy-ites and pre-John Birchers (Minute Women),
in Nashville it was the lunch-counter demonstrations. At the Wash-
ington Cathedral I helped plan a conference on “Poverty, Education
and the American Indian.”

As I write, I'm at the Urban Training Center in Chicago for a

[ 220 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nine months’ sabbatical and “retraining” time. I say retraining be-
cause I feel the need of it in these changing times. I don’t want my
next twenty years to reflect “truth seen too late.” My preparation
for the ministry was in the days of clinical training. This was help-
ful for a pastoral ministry in a residential area. Though this work
is important, it is not the total ministry needed for the future —a
future which began yesterday.

At the U.T.C. we are working with the unemployed, with drop-
outs and “Cybernetics and suburbia.” We are trying to get up-dated
on Urbanization and to search out new forms for the ministry of the
future. It looks as though we all are being followed by a cybernetics
system, whether or not we know it—but don’t look now — or
should you? It’s enough to be involved with a personal change
of life, but when you look around and see a technological meno-
pause, then what? I hope this isn’t another truth I’ve seen too late.
I’m carrying a lot of Victorian, “fat cat,” middle class, Caucasian
baggage. Carrying more, maybe — but enjoying it less. It’s enough
to see the threat of obesity, but too much to face obsolescence. A
joyous part of our past is to think that we remember Bing and
Rudy and Benny and the Dorseys — and Margie Hart. Those were
not seen and heard too late.

So, we're in the Age of Revolutions: Population, Human Rights,
Cybernetics, Weaponry, Poverty, Knowledge — you name it. We
are both old and young. And there’s a corner to be turned. Much
more demanding than the one prosperity was meant to be around.
This one involves a whole change of life for us — attitudes, values,
freedom to be truly human and to make a contribution in the public
sphere (as well as in the private sphere). The angel in “Green
Pastures” said: “Everything that was nailed down is coming loose”
—and that’s about it.

The road ahead of us need not be paved with truths we’ve seen

> 33

too late. “4o’s” are more than “sporties.”

[ 221 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I 940

BLAIR CLARK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 229 EF, 48th St, New York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Jessie Holladay Philbin, May 29, 1941 (divorced 1960). CHILDREN:
Timothy Blair, Sept. 9, 1942; Cameron Clark, June 5, 1944.

HARVARD SONS: Timothy Blair Clark, 63; Cameron Clark, ’66.

OCCUPATION: Journalist (at this writing, ex-journalist). Until January, 1965,
with CBS News for twelve years as correspondent.

orFices HELD: Correspondent, twelve years, general manager and vice-president,
1961 to mid-1964, director of international operations, mid-1964 to January

1, 1965, CBS News; president, Association of Radio and Television News
Analysts, 1960; director, Cancer Care, Inc., 1958-60.
MEMBER OF: Overseas Press Club, 1961-65.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in New York Times Magazine and other publications.

BY June of 1940, with the years of the Crimson behind me, I was
hooked by the idea of journalism and the worlds it seemed to lead
to. It was clear that the American entry into the war was close and
the notion of starting law school, which I considered, appeared un-
realistic. Anyway, I was restless and tired of academia. And so,
after a wandering summer and an operation on a knee, I set out to
find a newspaper job. I landed on the St. Louis Post-Dispatch after
near-misses in Texas and worked there as a cub reporter from
November, 1940, until February, 1941, when a near-sighted old draft
board clerk in Princeton, New Jersey, found my card, with its
change of address, on top of his pile and, neglecting details like
proper order number, caused me to return for induction into the
Army. I was assigned to the Field Artillery in the qqth Infantry
Division at Fort Dix, New Jersey, where I began to learn the price
this country has paid in the form of the National Guard for the

{ 222 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

historic and sentimental tradition of the citizen army. The q4th, as
a military organization, was comic and corrupt. For me there be-
gan a long battle with the Army to go to OCS despite the physical
residues of polio. I won this after more than two years but by then
was on limited service, having done such duty as is required of a
master sergeant editor of the Field Artillery Journal and the Cavalry
Journal. In 1944 I maneuvered myself overseas as a so-called combat
historian and was attached for the rest of the war in Europe to
Patton’s Third Army and its Corps, Divisions and Regiments.

After the war, to make up for lost time, I founded, with another
man, a Sunday independent newspaper in Manchester, New Hamp-
shire, called the New Hampshire Sunday News, of which I was
publisher. After two years of great success in circulation, and having
won all the newspaper prizes except the Pulitzer, but with bank-
ruptcy a constant companion, it became clear that either I or the
daily had to buy each other out. I failed to buy them and they
bought me, handsomely, and I moved to New York where I was
briefly the business manager and treasurer of the New York Star
which I then liquidated for Marshall Field. After a few months
trying entrepreneurship I went back to work as a reporter, this time
in America’s largest newspaper room for improvement, the Boston
Herald-Traveler, where I also wrote editorials for the Traveler.
That lasted from June, 1950, until the end of 1951, when I left,
bloodied. I went prospecting for newspapers again, found some but
never the right combination of backers and situation, and, in the
spring of ’52, became public relations man for the presidential
nomination campaign of Averell Harriman. (You'll remember that
I got him born in a log cabin, nominated and elected.)

In September I took my family abroad to Paris where I wanted to
study and travel for a year, but I soon got involved with CBS, first
as a stringer, then as a correspondent. There I stayed until the spring
of 1956 when I came back to New York where I broadcast news,
mostly on radio, through January of 1961. I had a chance to work
for John F. Kennedy as an ambassador but I chose instead, with many
doubts, to take the job of general manager and vice-president of
CBS News. Vastly enlightening, this was, on the world of broad-
casting and politics and their interconnection, but the machinery of
it weighs tons and is dominant and I felt increasingly the remoteness
from events and their meaning. And so, after one half-step abroad
again for six months, I left CBS and broadcasting to take a little time
off to consider the next step, which might just be the last one.

[ 223 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

1am pleased to have had two sons at Harvard, though I did nor
push them there. I am interested in Harvard and loyal to it as I am
to no other institution. As for the larger questions raised by the
questionnaire, they will have to be read on and between the lines
because | have used up all the real ones.

CHARLES MILTON CLARK, JR.

  

4 ;
HOME ADDRESS: 2063 Larchmont, Akron, Ohio 44313.
orFice appress: Akron Clinic, 513 W. Market St Akron, Ohio.
PREPARED AT: John R. Buchtel High School, Akron, Ohio,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.8., 1940, MD. (Univ. of Virginia),
1943-
MARRIED: Jeanne E, Hellriegel, Jan. 17, 1948. cHiLpreN: Robert Charles, Oct.
11, 1948; Mary Anne, May 27, 1954; Susan Garrison, Aug. 2, 1958; Maureen
M., March 8, 1962.
occupation: Physician — internal medicine, Akron Clinic.
OFFICES HELD: Member, board of governors, Akron Clinic, 1956-61, since 1963;
member, board of deacons, 1959-63, senior deacon, 1963, First Congrega~
tional Church, president and chairman of board, Riviera Enterprises, 1959-
64,
MEMBER OF; American, Ohio and Summit County Medical Societies, Akron
Society of Internal Medicine; Cleveland Gastro-enterological Society;
American Diabetic Association.

| Education Phase
Following graduation I spent a very profitable three and a half
years education-wise, both scientific and otherwise, in the acceler-
ated medical program at the University of Virginia, graduating in
December, 1943, with my M.D. Although dedication to the medical
program seemed to run perhaps as deep as elsewhere, including Har-

[ 224]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

vard, certainly the pace and the life ran at a considerably slower
and more relaxing level than at Harvard.

My postgraduate training was spent entirely at the Cleveland
Clinic from 1944 until 1950 except for two relatively uneventful
years in the Army Air Force from the latter part of 1944 until
1946. After a three-year fellowship in internal medicine at the
Cleveland Clinic, followed by a half-year on the assistant staff in
the gastroenterology department, I decided I was well enough edu-
cated to launch out on my own.

II Professional Phase

Perhaps the finest contribution which I received from the Cleve-
land Clinic was the introduction to my bride of almost seventeen
years now, with whom I transported our somewhat meager belong-
ings and selves to Texarkana in the summer of 1950 to enter group
practice there. Shortly after my arrival, in aiding with the care of
a patient I suffered a ruptured lumbar disc and was forced to dis-
continue practice for several months. Subsequently, we returned
to Ohio and I joined the Akron Clinic in my old home town where
I have been ever since.

I have now spent almost fourteen years here in the practice of
internal medicine which I have enjoyed considerably. To me the
practice of medicine in a group is the most enjoyable type of medi-
cal practice, because of the possibilities of discussing patients with
fellow colleagues in internal medicine as well as those in the surgi-
cal specialties. Besides aiding in the diagnosis and treatment of pa-
tients, this enables one to carry on self-education to a much greater
extent than perhaps is possible in private individual practice.

From the standpoint of the clinic itself, it has been extremely
interesting and enjoyable for me to watch the growth of this group
from approximately ten when I joined to the neighborhood of
twenty in recent years. In addition, our physical facilities have been
enlarged and improved, although not nearly so much as we would
like. For this reason, we are in the process of making plans to double
our present space and our adjunctive facilities, as well as increasing
the medical personnel perhaps by fifty percent within the relatively
near future. Since I have been on the Board of Governors of the
Clinic for eight of my fourteen years here, including the past two
years, I have felt as though I have been on the inside as well as
having a hand in the actual planning. As a matter of fact, at the
present time I am chairman of the Planning Committee and am

[225 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

EUGENE VAUGHN CLARK

 

HOME ApprEss: Crescent Boulevard, Bennington, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 South St., Bennington, Vt.

PREPARED AT: Shaker Heights High School, Shaker Heights, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940: LL.B. (Cornell Univ.), 1948.
MarRIED: Elisabeth Kimball (Stoneleigh Jr. Coll., 38), June 9, 1943. CHILDREN:
Kimball Gardner, March 4, 1954; Thomas Hartshorne, Dec. 15, 1956.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Mills Gardner Clark, '39, a.M., °47, PHD., ’50; Crandall

Clark, °46.

occupation: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Municipal Judge, 1959-62, Senator, 1962-64, Bennington County;
member, board of trustees, Bennington YMCA; member, board of mana-
gers, Bennington Free Library; member, executive committee, Bennington
Museum, Putnam Memorial Hospital, secretary, Bennington County Red
Cross; president, Bennington Rotary Club, Bennington County Bar Asso-
ciation, Bennington Community Chorus; chairman, board of trustees, Sec-
ond Congregational Church.

IN June, 1940, I went to work for the Warner & Swasey Company,
manufacturers of machine tools in Cleveland, Ohio. I was in their
apprentice training program until April of 1942 when I went on
active duty in the Navy Supply Corps. My first duty was in Wash-
ington. Later | went overseas as a supply officer with the 71st Naval
Construction Battalion, serving in Guadalcanal, Bougainville and the
Admiralty Islands. 1 ended the war traveling about the country for
the Naval Surplus Disposal Administration. My tours of duty
included twice returning to Harvard for courses at the Business
School. In February of 1946 I was released from active duty and
entered Cornell Law School from which I graduated in June of 1948.

My wife and I wished to live in the country and settled in Ben-
nington, Vermont, in September of 1948, where we have made our

[ 228 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

home and I have practised law ever since. We cannot imagine a
more beautiful part of the country in which to work and live.

GEORGE OLIVER CLARK, JR.

 

MAILING ADpREsS: P.O. Box 291, La Jolla, Calif.

HENRY AUSTIN CLARK, JR.

 

HOME AppRESS: Meadow Spring, Glen Cove, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Long Island Automotive Museum, Museum Square, Southamp-
ton, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St, Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

mMarriep: Waleta Hunter, June 17, 1944. CHILDREN: Marguerite Ann, May 29,
1945; James Hunter, Feb, 11, 1948; Henry Austin, 3d, June 8, 1949; Cynthia,
July 2, 1952.

occupation: Automotive historian; also estate and investment management.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1940, member, executive committee, since 1946,
Cuban-American Sugar Company (now North American Sugar Indus-

[ 229]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Corps, USNR, and in June of 1944 we were married in the Air
Station Chapel. From then on, we were able to go together to my
last two stations which were the Naval Air Technical Training
Centers at Corpus Christi, Texas, and finally Gainesville, Georgia.
Our first daughter, Ann, was born at Corpus where I was teaching
the maintenance of airborne electronic equipment.

After the fall of Japan, I was able to get out of the Navy on points
and returned home to the old house in Flushing where I had lived
since 1920. Mother had died in 1942, but my father was alive and
well, and he welcomed my new family. We went to work and
fixed up the old house next door that he had used for an office,
moving in shortly after.

After graduation I had been made a director of the Cuban Ameri-
can Sugar Company, of which my father was one of the founders.
Now I was added to the executive committee, although this was not
a full-time job, of course. I started at this time to expand my collec-
tion of antique automobiles which I had started when a freshman, and
in a couple of years I had accumulated enough to present a problem
about storage. The solution was to build a suitable building where
they could be displayed to the public. I selected Southampton
where we had had our summer home for years, mainly as an excuse
to stay out of the heat of New York summers. In August of 1948,
the Long Island Automotive Museum opened and has been growing
ever since with the exception of two occasions when I have held
large auctions to reduce the collection.

During the entire time since the war, I have been very active in
various activities related to the old car hobby. I have served as
president of the Veteran Motor Car Club of America, which was
founded in Boston during my college years. Starting in 1946, there
have been annual revivals of the Glidden Tours, and I have missed
only three of them. In 1954 and 1957 I helped to organize and
participated in the two Anglo-American Vintage Sports Car Rallies,
first in England and then back here. For me, these were the high
points of my old car activity.

While in Flushing, our two sons, Jim and Hal, were born. With
the increasing build-up of the area, it became evident that someday
we would have to move, and in 1951 my wife found a place that has
proved ideal in Glen Cove. Just after we moved, my father, who
had been an invalid for three years, died. A few months later,
Cynthia was born, bringing us to full strength with four children.

Since moving to Glen Cove, I have spent more time on the re-

[231]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

search and hbrary end of my automotive interests. We did have one
hectic vear when we opened a branch of the Museum in Times
Square. It was called the Carnival of Cars and lost money faster than
having 200 taxicabs with the meters running. However, it was a
beautiful show, and some one hundred thousand visitors enjoyed it
during the nine months it was open.

I have had pleasant relations with other Museums whose interests
are similar or otherwise and have worked with such diversified estab-
lishments as the Smithsonian, the Larz Anderson in Brookline,
Thompson (now Western Reserve Historical Society) in Cleveland,
Museum of the City of New York, Science Museum. in Boston,
Henry Ford Museum in Dearborn, and the new Museum of Auto-
mobiles in Morrilton, Arkansas. Our own Museum continues to 1n-
crease attendance each summer, and interest in the early automobile
does likewise every year.

Gradually, I have stopped trying to find excuses when people ask
me what I do for a living. For years I have been much too busy to
do even what I have on hand to do, what with the unending corre-
lated activities having something to do with the history of the
automobile. This past year I have added a library wing to the house
in Glen Cove, but it does not start to hold all the automobile litera-
ture that has been accumulating over the years. It does, however,
keep the best of it in a good light accessible place where I can work
in comfort.

The children are growing up, with Ann at Smith, Jim and Hal at
Choate, and Cynthia at Buckley (still at home). We have no star-
tling plans for the future. The girls like horses and the boys cars.

What did I get out of my four years at Harvard? Probably a lot
of things that do not even come to mind, but of those that do I

could mention a few at random. Learning how to organize my work
and do an engineering problem from Professor Albert Haertlein.
Learning to drive in Boston traffic. Learning to survey the steep
part of a mountain from Bradford Washburn. Learning to get most
of my work done and still not miss any good parties. Learning that
the worst seat in Soldiers Field is better than the best one in the Yale
Bowl. Learning that you do not have to remember things, just

where to look them up (except for exams). Most of all many good
friends.

{ 232 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES CAMERON CLARK, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 2451 Brichell St., Miami 36, Fla,

+ LOUIS CRAWFORD CLARK

 

BORN: Feb. 21, 1918, Washington, D.C. PARENTS: Louis Crawford Clark, ’o2,

Frances Stokes.
PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940.
Marriep: Anne Paul, Dec. 27, 1941. cHiLD: Louis Crawford, Jr.
pieD: April 16, 1942, Norfolk, Va.

LOUIS CRAWFORD CLARK was an ensign in the Naval Reserve
when he was killed in the line of duty when his plane crashed on a
Practice flight at Norfolk, Virginia. He was survived by his wife
and mother. A son, Louis Crawford, Jr., was born after Clark’s
death,

[ 233 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.10

JAMES SPENCER CLARKE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1831 Rita Drive, N.E., Albuquerque, N.Mex. 87105.

OFFICE appRESs: University of New Mexico School of Medicine, Albuquerque,
N.Mex.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B. cum laude, 1940; M.D., cum laude,
1943.

MarRiED: Maxine Yvonne Taylor, April 9, 1949. CHILDREN: Nancy Lynn,
April 30, 1951; Mary Kathryn, Aug. 28, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Terrel Edward Clarke, 1.4. '43, M.B.A., "46.

occuPaTIoN: Professor and chairman, Department of Surgery, University of
New Mexico School of Medicine; chief of surgery, Bernalillo County-
Indian Hospital, Albuquerque, N.Mex., consultant, Albuquerque Veterans
Administrauion Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Intern and resident in surgery, 1944-46, 1948-53, assistant professor
of surgery, 1955-56, University of Chicago; chief, Surgical Service, Los
Angeles V.A. Center, 1956-63; assistant professor of surgery, 1956-58,
associate professor of surgery, 1958-63, UCLA Medical Center.

MEMBER oF: American College of Surgeons; Society of University Surgeons;
Pacific Coast Surgical Association, Western Surgical Association, Amer-
ican Gastroenterological Association (associate member); Society for

Surgery of the Alimentary Tract, Society for Experimental Biology and
Medicine; Albuquerque Tennis Club.

THE past years have brought me a life in the West, opportunity to
work in and appreciate centers of academic excellence other than
Harvard, and a continuing respect for Harvard’s success in assem-
bling outstanding teachers and able students, and in training them to
become leaders in a wide variety of callings and places.

After leaving Harvard Medical School I returned to Chicago to
take internship and residency in surgery near home. While this
seven years of additional training was in progress, the Army re-
quired two years abroad in Kyoto, Japan, and Pusan, Korea. After

[234]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

finishing the residency at the University of Chicago, I remained on
the staff an additional three years, and left it with a gratitude and
respect similar to that I feel for Harvard...

The seven years from 1956 to 1963 were spent happily as chief of
surgery at the Los Angeles Veterans Administration Hospital, doing
clinical surgery, research and teaching young surgeons. As a mem-
ber of the Department of Surgery of the UCLA Medical Center, I
was privileged to work in a young but very stimulating school. My
family and I share the feeling that Los Angeles is a fine and very
interesting place to live.

Since 1963, we have lived in New Mexico, sharing in the develop-
ment of a new and very good school of medicine. The University
of New Mexico is growing in excellence and size. Many Harvard
alumni are part of this, and the common bond is pleasant and helpful.
My family and I are coming to be very enthusiastic about the South-
west, its climate and scenery, cultural mixture, people who are ener-
getic and building well, and its unique opportunities to participate.

Harvard didn’t change my politics or religion much, but it and the
University of Chicago were critical in guiding my interests toward
an academic career, and this has been satisfying and challenging in
the extreme — and the future looks even more so.

JOEL LEON CLARKE

gee ANE lest ar ate aor, os

¥

 

HOME aAppress: 41 Amherst Rd., Waban, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: The Bargain Center, Inc., Quincy, Mass.

PREPARED AT: English High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., Cum laude, 1940.

MarRIED: Rhoda E. Coppleman, Dec. 25, 1941. cHILDREN: Gerald Laurence,
July 31, 1944; Roberta Nancy, Nov. 4, 1948.

[ 235 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

occepaTion: Major stockholder, partner, general merchandise manager, The
Bargain Center, Inc., multiple and allied retail department stores — whole-
saler of general merchandise; also appraisal and arbitration for insurance
companies, re merchandise losses.

orricés HELD: Director, Temple Mishkan Tefila, Newton, Mass., since 1958,
New England Division, National Federation of Jewish Men’s Clubs, 1963-
64; associate, Jewish Theological Seminary, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: AF, & A.M. (Masonry); Adelphi and Garden City Lodges, Na-
tional Sojourners; Military Order of Masons; Blue Hills Associates; Blue
Hills Country Club; Air Force Officers Reserve Association.

MILITARY service occupied the first five-year period after gradua-
tion. I attained the rank of lieutenant colonel, Adjutant-General’s
Department, on duty with the Air Force. My military specialties
were director for personnel and administration, classification officer,
and statistical control officer. During military service I traveled
extensively throughout the United States and then served overseas
in Iceland. Despite the ups and downs and the separations from
family, I look upon my military service as being the most important
phase of my life up to that ume. The broad range of schooling and
the high echelon administrative experience acquired therein would
not have been possible for a young man in his early twenties in any
civilian situation. I believe firmly that military service at officer
level offers great opportunity to “eager beaver” young men who
grasp that opportunity,

My principal interests are my family and my business, in that
order. On Christmas Day, 1941, enroute between military stations
I married the girl whom I dated for four years in college. After
twenty-three years of marriage, she still looks as good as ever. My
wife is a superb cook and baker, to which several of our classmates
can attest. This fact plus age makes it difficult to retain a reasonable
waistline. Devoted wife and mother, Rhode still finds time to be
active in various organizations. Son Gerald, now twenty, graduated
from Roxbury Latin School, is now in his third year at M.LT.
majoring in industrial management, and is in advanced ROTC.
Daughter Roberta, “sweet sixteen,” is a happy extrovert and is an
honor student in her third year at Newton South High School.

In eighteen years, my partners and I have built a sizable merchan-
dising operation in which we employ some 50 people. In a highly
competitive field, we are under great pressure and always “run
scared” which is a factor in continuing growth. Another facet of
our business, making appraisals for and acting as arbitrator for
insurance companies, keeps me traveling throughout the entire

[ 236 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

country. Thank goodness for jet aircraft or I would never be home.

Hobby- and vacation-wise, Rhode and I became interested some
years ago in the Indian civilizations of the American hemisphere.
We have visited many archaeological and historic sites pertinent
thereto, some readily accessible and others quite remote, throughout
Mexico proper, the Yucatan Peninsula, Central and South America.
We wish we had the time zow to really delve with more intensive
application into this fascinating subject. Woodworking and a rather
complete workshop are also good for the nerves and pressure.

Visiting or entertaining friends is our principal social activity,
augmented by a little country-clubbing.

Five years ago, after many matches of tennis singles, I was told
by my friend and doctor that doubles would be more suitable with
advancing age. So I took up golf! What a stimulating, relaxing,
titillating, enervating, and aggravating pursuit! Shooting in the
high eighties, I will probably never improve.

Politically, the persuasion is conservative with much belief in the
right to be an individual, consistent with the mores of our society.
Somehow we must find a level at which needed social welfare does
not mean birth to grave security with the resultant governmental
takeover of all individual freedoms and responsibilities.

+ RICHARD CLAY

 

BORN: Sept. 25, 1915, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Robert Chesterfield Clay,
Elizabeth Roberts.
PREPARED AT: St. George's School, Newport, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.
MaRRIED: Jane Holden, June 21, 1938, New York, N.Y. (died Oct. 4, 1945);
Vidal Starr, Sept. 16, 1946, Philadelphia, Pa. cHmpren: Judith, June 28,

[ 237 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

1040, George Roberts, zd, Nov. 17, 1943: Curtis L., Feb. 13, 1945; Malcolm,

May 2, 1946, Richard Jr, June 16, 1948; Mary, Sept. 11, 1951; Joseph
Aug. 12, 1953.

pep: Feb. 13, 1959, Westport, Conn,

RICHARD CLAY was an executive of the Sikorsky Division of the
United Aircraft Corporation in Stratford, Connecticut, with whom
he had been associated since 1944. After college he took a course in
aviation technology and during the war w orked as a Civilian for the
Army Air Force. For many years he was active in school and civic

affairs and was the author of ‘several short stories. He was survived
by his wife and children,

GUY MORRISON CLEMENTS

  

HOME ADDRESS: 166 Ridgefield Rd., Wilton, Conn. 06897.

oFFice appress: Dempsey-Tegeler & Co., Barringer Bldg., Wilton, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Mercersburg Academy, Mercersburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

marriep: Carol Stride, July 20, 1945. cutprex: Guy Roger, 2d, July 7, 19465
Jean Michele, Feb. 19, 1951.

occupation: Branch manager in charge of Wilton, Connecticut, office, Demp-
sey-Tegeler & Company, a New York Stock Exchange member firm.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Norwalk (Conn.) Hospital, since December, 1963;
vice-president and director, United Fund of Wilton, since July, 1962;
director, Wilton Playshop, Inc. since July, 1964; Justice of the Peace,

Town of Wilton, since November, 1962.

Member oF: Harvard Club of Fairfield County (formerly Harvard Club of
New Canaan).

I BELIEVE that early jobs, Naval service, etc. were well covered in
previous Reports.

Our move from New York City to Wilton in December, 1957,

{ 238]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

started a chain of events which has been very exciting so far, and
could lead to still better things in the future. Five years ago, after
fourteen years in life insurance in New York, I joined a non-member
stock brokerage firm as a part-time registered representative. This
was, at the time, only supposed to help me round out my services to
my insurance clients. Very soon the tail began to wag the dog, and
I found myself full time in the brokerage business, and loving it. In
April of 1964, Coburn & Middlebrook was bought out by Dempsey-
Tegeler & Company. Since that time, things have moved rapidly.
I now find myself in charge of the company’s only branch in Fair-
field County, with all sorts of exciting vistas ahead. As a commercial,
I should mention that fast-growing Dempsey-Tegeler now has more
than eighty offices from coast to coast, is a member of the New York
Stock Exchange and most other principal stock and commodity ex-
changes, and is the only New York Stock Exchange member which
is a major underwriter of institutional bonds (churches, schools,
hospitals, etc.).

All of this has still left time to take part in various local activities.
For the first few years after our move to Wilton I was a regular
actor in Wilton Playshop productions. Now that I don’t seem to
have time for rehearsals, I am still on the board of directors and in
charge of the playreading committee.

I was campaign manager for the winning candidate in a hard-
fought primary within the Republican party about three years ago.
When Wilton established a United Fund three years ago, I was the
first general campaign chairman. We went well over the top (and
have done so each year since under other men). I may have gotten
snared into that job because the previous year I had been in charge
of the every-member-canvass at St. Matthew's Episcopal Church. (I
served on the vestry there for three years.) The United Fund, in
turn, led to giving additional service at the Norwalk Hospital.

Carol has been busy, too. At one time or another, she has been
secretary of the Wilton Pony Club, treasurer of Children’s Services
of Connecticut, on the board of the Wilton Garden Club, and a vice-
president of the Wilton Playshop.

With all these activities and with the rather rapid changes (for the
better) in my business, we have not been able to take long enough
vacations to get very far from home. I guess our limits have been
Nova Scotia, western New York, Florida and Bermuda. I trust that
in the next few years we will be able to find the time to really ex-
plore the world.

[ 239 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Roger is a senior at Tabor Academy in Marion, Massachusetts,
His major outside activity there is as an officer on the Tabor Boy,
the sea-foing partly square-rigged schooner which is the school flag-
ship. Here in Wilton, he is an officer of the Student Summer Play-
shop, and he has built a Model T sports car from what was really
junk. A very impressive vehicle (and it runs).

Michele (w ho answers to Micky) is at Kathleen Laycock Country
Day School in Greens Farms. She is the best sportsman in the
family. She is on the school field hockey team, and is active in other
sports. Her main love, however, is riding. By hook or PY crook
she is going to get me to build a barn this year.

1 might close by saving that in spite | of twenty-four and one- “half
vears since graduation, I still feel like a “young man on the way up.”

ROBERT STEPHEN CLEMENTS

 

HOME AppREsS: 3720 N. Randolph St, Arlington, Va. 22207.
OFFICE Appress: 700 Warner Bldg., 13th & E Streets, N.W., Washington, D.C.

20004.
preparen at: Eastern High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940(47); LL.B, (Georgetown
Univ.), 1951.

MARRIED: Juanita Guess, April 20, 1953. cumorEN: Stephen Augustus, 3d, May
11, 19545 Patience, Sept. 29, 1956; Jon Bailey, Oct. 24, 1950.
occupation: Senior partner, Clements & Company, insurance brokers.

mMemper or: Bar of the District of Columbia; University Club, Washington,
D.C.; Potomac Appalachian Trail Club.

A FEW friends may recall that 1 came to the Class of 1940 by way
of M.LT. After a freshman year there, I moved up river and into
Dunster House. Fewer friends may recall my argument with the

[ 240 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

College just prior to June, 1940. At issue were my language qualifica-
tions for the degree. Harvard settled the argument in its favor —
and to its credit. So, in June, 1940, 1 had completed the four years
but had no degree. I arranged to attend a summer semester at Har-
vard in 1947, met the deficiency — with some extra to spare, and
hence my degree from Harvard is as of MDCCCCXXXXVII.

I entered law schoo] at Georgetown University in the fall of 1947,
and received my LL.B. in 1951. I was admitted to the bar in my
home town, Washington, D.C., in 1952.

In 1940, I went into the insurance business in ‘Washington, D. Ce,
and am still in it. The route from street agent to “executive” is
standard. Note, however, that here the “executive” has dominion
over a very small enterprise. It cannot go unnoted that my wife,
and the mother of my children, is the other partner in our firm.

We, Clements & Company, are “experts” in a very narrow field —
world-wide insurance accounts for the individual, non-commercial.
Implicit in the above is the non-use of my legal training, except as
it has helped me in business.

I have enjoyed the past twenty-five years. One source of the joy
comes from our interest in Assateague Island (one of the last de-
serted large outer-bank islands off the east coast). Our house on it,
which replaced tent living twelve years ago, is one of the- very few
houses on the island. Our children have been reared with jeeps,
boats, soft sand, northeast storms, and all other features — good and
bad — which go with isolated island living. We plan to “hone” them
there as long as they will stand for it.

Another source of joy comes from the faith that one day soon I
will have the financial security to run as an independent for dog

catcher.

L24r]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

WILLIAM BROOKS CLIFT, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 33-29 73d St., Jackson Heights, N.Y.

OFFICE abpREsS: Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, 385 Madison Ave., New
York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Germantown Friends School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1940.

marriep: Anne Pearmain, April, 1940 (divorced 1948); Ruth Conrad, August,
1949 (divorced 1953); Dorothy Means, January, 1955 (divorced 1964);
Eleanor Roelofs, Nov. 1, 1964. CHILDREN: Suzanne, April 28, 1941; William
Brooks, 3d, Jan. 5, 1944; Catherine Anderson, Jan. 15, 1950; Patricia Bayard,
Jan. 16, 1956. GRANDCHILD: Alexis Clift, June 3, 1963.

occupation: Advertising, TV commercial producer.

MEMBER OF: Directors Guild of America; Actors Equity.

TELEVISION has been the focal point of my career for the last
fifteen years, from stage-managing the “Hit Parade” and “Good-
year Philco Playhouse,” to directing “The Home Show,” to becom-
ing a TV producer. I find TV commercials can be of considerable
creative satisfaction, despite their inherent limitations.

“Experimental” film-making is one of my hobbies. I recently
completed a twenty-minute film, “Ballet Mécanique, ” which I
wrote, shot and edited myself. At present I’m trying to write a
screen treatment of “Steppenwolf,” and a one-act play.

Earlier class albums summarize my previous lives.

[ 242 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL CLARK CLOUGH

 

=== ss: 24 E. Eager St., Baltimore z, Md.

FREDERICK WARREN CO ~

 

—reEss: 8 Glenwood Ave., Ross, Calif.

[ 243 ]

S777 7 PST OR

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ANTHONY COGSWELL

 

HOME appress: Forest Street, Plaistow, N.H.

oFFice. appress: Soroka, \{cDonald, Davis, Cogswell & Macdougall, 68 Emerson
St., Haverhill, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREE: LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1951.

MarrieD: Jayne Furbish, Feb. 18, 1939. cHtLprEN: Pamela, July 12, 1945 (2.
Wilton Painten— divorced); William, Nov. 16, 1951; Susan, April 26,
1954; David, Oct. 27, 1955; Nancy, July 18, 1957; John, March 25, 1962.
GRANDCHILD: Elisa Painten, Jan. 3, 1963.

occupation: Lawyer, senior partner.

orFices HELD: Director, Merrimack Valley National Bank, since 1953; trustee,
John Greenleaf Whittier Homestead, since 1953; member, Zoning Com-
mission, 1955-56, Planning Board, 1956-62 (chairman, 1959-62), chairman,
Budget Committee, 1961-63, Plaistow, New Hampshire.

MEMBER OF: American, Boston, Essex County, Haverhill, New Hampshire and

Rockingham County Bar Associations, American Legion; Plaistow Fish
and Game Club.

[244 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FELIX COHEN

 

HOME appreEss: 28 Evelyn Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cambridge Day Center, 650 Concord Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Edward Little High School, Auburn, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; aM. (Univ. of
Rochester), 1944; M.p.H. (Harvard Univ.), 1958.

MARRIED: Frieda S. Omansky, June 8, 1947. CHILDREN: Stephen Daniel, Sept.
11, 1948; Richard Jonathan, Jan. 26, 1951; Eliot Asher, April 3, 1956, David
Seth, Feb, 20, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Sidney Cohen, ’33, M.D., °37.

OCCUPATION: Psychiatrist;. director, out-patient services, Westborough State
Hospital; director, Cambridge Day Center.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Psychiatry (diplomate 1951); Massachusetts
Medical Society; American Psychiatric Association; Academy of Religion
and Mental Health; Friends of Maimonides School.

PUBLICATIONS: “Hostility and Psychotic Symptoms,” Psychiatry Quarterly,
April, 1954; “The Relationship Between Delusional Thinking and Hos-
tility — A Case Study,” Psychiatry Quarterly, April, 1956; “Theism and
Maturity,” Journal of Pastoral Care, spring 1957; “Personality Changes
Among Members of Alcoholics Anonymous,” Mental Hygiene, July, 1962,
“Alcoholics Anonymous Principles and the Treatment of Emotional Ill-
ness,” Mental Hygiene, October, 1964; “Prescriptive Group Therapy”
— A Group Therapy Utilizing Principles of AA Program, Journal of Relt-
gion and Health, January, 1965.

MY travels in terms of physical mileage were encompassed in a
seven-year period after graduation. First was University of Roches-
ter Medical School, then a year’s internship at Michael Reese Hos-
pital in Chicago, and two years’ psychiatric work in the Army,
mostly in Europe. Meantime I was able to tour Italy, France,
Germany, Austria and Switzerland — including some memorable
skiing adventures in St. Moritz. At this point my wanderlust was

[245 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

appeased and I have never felt rebellious about my subsequent
geographically limited mode of life in suburban Boston.

However, I have continued to move about in my mental life.
First there was the “agonizing reappraisal” of a classical psycho-
analysis, accompanied and followed by my own psychiatric work
which included individual, group therapy, research and adminis-
trative experiences. An optimistic eclectic, I continue to feel an
exciting sense of challenge about it all. Fundamental concepts and
approaches are in a state of flux and the frontiers can be pushed
back. Most recently I have had a special opportunity to participate
in this effort by obtaining a grant award to develop a psychiatric
day hospital in Cambridge.

While indubitably stimulating, this professional life would have
been a narrow and w earing existence without my stabilizing and
enriching family relationships. My wife is sensitive, artistically
minded ~~ and Was a practising architect before we married. We
have been spared major illness or tragedy, share a common aversion
for airplane travel and parental delinquency and a common weakness
for exotic, artistically prepared food, symphony concerts and mu-
seums. Finally, we are agreed in subordinating other interests to
the raising of our four liv ely boys who now range in age from five
to sixteen. They conform to no stereotypes, least of all, I trust, to
the New Yorker's i image of the psychiatrist's children.

The religious dimension eluded me at college but has affected
me since settling down. In the past ten years, the exploration and
utilization of Judaic ideals have proved a warming experience. This
remains a personal matter for me, however, rather than leading
to major organizational involvement.

It sounds as if I have been overly serious as I look back at what
I wrote. True not much time has been left for other activities. Any
surplus energy has been absorbed in more psychiatry rather than
community work of another kind. My politics have been con-
servatively liberal but my interest in this area is peripheral. How-
ever, there has been a lot of fun — with camera, the piano, the
garden, ar and mostly with my delightful and loyal family.

[ 246 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

*- WILLIAM CALDWELL COLEMAN, JR.

 

BorN: March 5, 1918, Baltimore, Md. parents: William Caldwell Coleman,

’o5, Elizabeth Brooke.
PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.
MarRIED: Nancy Nye, May 10, 1942. cHiLp: William Brooke, Sept. 9, 1943.
pep: Killed in an airplane crash at sea, Jan. 24, 1945, off the Florida coast.

AFTER graduation Coleman spent a year at the University of
Virginia Law School before entering naval service in September,
1941. He attended midshipmen’s school in New York City and
was graduated in January, 1942. He then attended the Mine War-
fare School at Yorktown, Virginia, and took his flight training at
Dallas and Pensacola. He was a lieutenant at the time of his death in
an airplane crash. He was survived by his wife and son.

WILLIAM DAVID COLLINS

 

HOME Appress: Kinderhook, N.Y.

[ 247 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

orrice aporrss: Lone Star Cement Corp., 75 State St., Albany, N.Y,
PREPARED AT: Lawrence Academy, Groton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1940.

Marrire: Marjorie DeVoe, Oct. 17, 1942, Milton, Mass. cHttpren: William
David, Jr. Feb. 2, 1947; Lora DeVoe, May 19, 1949; Brian, Dec. 7, 1950.
oocePATION; Sales management — division sales manager, Lone Star Cement Cor-

poration, New York Division, covering New England and New York
State.

MEMBER OF: Old Chatham Hunt Club, Old Chatham, N.Y.; Albany Chamber

of Commerce; Empire State Sand, Gravel and Ready-Mixed Concrete
Association,

FOR some reason or other it seems difficult for me to realize that
twenty-five vears have actually passed since we all filed into “the
Yard” for Commencement in June of 1940. But in comparing the
two photographs which appear above these words, it becomes rather
obvious that they actually have.

In snatching at straws, to deny this pasage of time, I give you
the fact that I do still have my own hair — however, I must admit
that the measurements on file at Bolter’s in “the Square” would
hardly apply were I to order a suit!

| fondly recall that sunny day on the Charles during tryouts for
Freshman Crew when Harvey ‘Love, then Freshman Coach, asked
me how much I weighed, and I answ: ered, “165, sir,” padding it
about five pounds for fear of being too light to make a boat.

But the years have passed and I must admit they have been good
tome. I don’t mean materially for [am neither w ealthy nor eminent.
But I did marry a great girl and survived the war to come home and
have three wonderful kids, who, incidentally, are now teen-agers
and who are jointly trying to bring us up to date on the more im-
portant aspects of modern life.

My business career since the war has been that of energetically
propagating the sale and utilization of the Lone Star Cement Corpo-

ration’s products in the construction field. This career began with
my being sales representative in metropolitan Boston, then going
to Washington, D.C.,, as district manager, and then to Albany, New
York, as division sales manager which is my slot as of this writing.

Marjorie and I and the children are happily situated in the Village
of Kinderhook in Columbia County, New York, the country of
Ichabod Crane and “The Headless Horseman of Sleepy Hollow,”
not to mention President Martin Van Buren whose resting place is

here in the Village.

Like everyone else, we've had our ups and downs, our good

[ 248 |

“TIE P Ep pNie amameeeteteteteetie ide me vets

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

times and our bad, our victories and our defeats — but we're all
still together, in good health, and looking to the future with keen
anticipation and, above all, optimism.

It seems to me, now that I can accept the fact of twenty-five years
actually having gone by, that all the ideas and hopes and ambitions
of 1940 have been, year by year, reshaped, reorganized, reoriented;
and that, as you achieve or realize one, another takes its place. This
is, obviously, “the way it goes” and I can find no fault with it.

A little hunting, a little fishing, my family and good friends; the
knowledge that I have a job and that I do it as well as I am able —
these are, to my way of thinking, what I must have had in mind
back there in June of 1940. And, as the fellow says, “Don’t knock
it unless you've tried it.”

I rather expect I will continue in this homely philosophy because
it has served me well. I have never had an ulcer nor a breakdown,
nor have I ever required psychotherapy (although I’m sure some
people might have other ideas about that!) and, as I so vainly men-
tioned earlier, I even have my hair.

I may have changed my tune by the time we convene for our
Fiftieth Reunion in, let’s see now, 1990? Hope to see you all in
Cambridge this June.

A. BARR COMSTOCK, JR.

    

  

ae
4 \

1

 

HOME AppreEss: 1162 Asbury Ave., Winnetka, IIL.

OFFICE AppREss: Screw & Bolt Corp. of America, 122 S. Michigan Ave., Chi-
cago 3, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

marrieD: Helen Leonard, June 28, 1941. CcHmDREN: William Barr, May 21,
1951; Joan Leonard, Aug. 23, 1956.

[ 249 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

occupation: Vice-president, Gary Division, Screw & Bolt Corp. of America,
manufacturers of industrial fasteners (bolts, nuts, screws, etc.).
MEMBER OF: Phoenix SK Club, Chicago Athletic Association,

THE twenty-five years seem to have gone rapidly since graduation.
The first one and a half years W orking i in the investment business
and getting married, the next four years in the Navy, and since early
1945 making a living selling nuts and bolts. During this time we
have lived in Boston, Washington, D.C., Philadelphia, Pittsburgh
and, for the last six years, here in Winnetka, Ilinois.

My Navy experiences were varied, including a tour of duty in
the Pacific with a land-based unit of Naval personnel, working with
the Marines and using Army equipment (what a deal!).

In Januarv, 1946, started i in sales with the company I am now
with, and am still thoroughly enjoying the rewards, trials and tribu-
lations of industrial sales in an extremely competitive industry.
Living in various cities has been interesting and many new friends
have been made along the way. My work calls for considerable
travel which has been enlightening, since during college days my
travels had taken me only west as far as Albany, New York.

My spare time is still taken up relaxing (loafing) and trying to
keep up with the activities of the family. Two kids, aged thirteen
and eight, can provide for plenty of action as many of you know.
We are all looking forward to attending the Reunion in June and
renewing all the old friendships at that time.

ALAN DOUGLAS CONGER

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Temple University School of Medicine,
biology, Broad Street at Ontario, Philadelphia, Pa, 19140.
prepareD at: Muskegon High School, Muskegon, Mich,

[250]

Dept. of Radio-

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., Cum laude, 1940, A.M. and PH.D., 1947.

marRIED: Priscilla Nash, Aug, 25, 1944. CHILDREN: Lucy Lee, July 17, 1946; Alan
Douglas, Jr., Jan. 3, 1948; David Robert Lafferty, July 31, 1954; Priscilla
Cushing, July 6, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Louis Herbert Conger, ’37, A.M., ’41.

occuPATION: Research professor in radiobiology, Temple University School of
Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Editor or associate editor for Radiation Research, Mutation Re-
search, Radiation Botany (scientific journals); officer, Radiation Research
Society.

MEMBER OF: Radiation Research Society; Biophysics Society; Genetics So-
ciety; American Society of Naturalists, Sigma Xi.

PUBLICATIONS: Numerous scientific articles, chapters in books,

I’M one of those lucky people who is doing just what he always
wanted to do; in my case, scientific research in biology. I consider
myself fortunate. Here I am, paid to do what I want to do anyway,
and on top of that supported to equip and run my laboratory (and it
costs more nowadays to keep a scientist and his lab than a mistress,
believe me).

My itchy heel has been well scratched in these years, with trips
around the U.S. (never got to North Dakota, though), to Hawaii,
to Eniwetok in the Pacific (for a number of atom bomb tests, where
I had research projects on the effects of atomic bomb radiations on
plants and mice), and to England and Europe for a year.

A year after college I began graduate work at the University of
Hawaii, but saw that dissolve at Pearl Harbor. Then came service in
the Air Force during the war, ending up as a buck sergeant, finally.
(I hated it, really, but discovered to my surprise at the end I had
turned into a good soldier.) Graduate work at Harvard followed,
with a wife, first child, and Ph.D. in a year and a quarter; I couldn’t
do that again. The next eleven years I spent as a scientist at the AEC’s
Oak Ridge National Laboratory, with a wonderful twelve months
on fellowship in England, and three more children thrown in. Since
1958 I have been a graduate research professor at the University of
Florida, and now, as I write this, am about to move to the Temple
University School of Medicine in Philadelphia as head of a radio-
biology group. |

I still derive a childish delight from research and finding out new
things, and cherish the notion that this is characteristic of scientists in
general — they still experience this wide-eyed, child-like pleasure
in a new discovery. And with experience, I have become con-

[251]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

vinced that intuition, that blind feeling for how something should
be, is a highly critical faculty in the pursuit of new knowledge.

ARNOLD GRINNELL COOK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 257 Washington Blvd., Oak Park, Ill.

PREPARED aT: Attleboro High School, Attleboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: 8B, cunz laude, 1940; M.B.A. (Univ. of
Chicago), 1952.

marrieD: Lee Osgood, Aug. 15, 1942. CHILDREN: Janet L
Bennett, March 1, 1949.

OCCUPATION: ‘Management consultant.

ee, June 5, 1944; David

IN the year following graduation I joined Inland Steel, met Lee
Osgood, whom I married the following year, and adopted the Mid-
west as home. World War Ill included training at Yale, followed by
service in North Africa. In all fairness, the native quarters of New
Haven were far superior to those of North Africa.

The years following were occupied with the usual activities of
establishing a home and family. My work gradually shifted from
large corporations to smaller manufacturing companies, from en-
gineering and manufacturing to general management.

Our daughter Janet currently attends Antioch College, where the
work-study program is proving an effective experience. David is at
Oak Park-River Forest High School, and at the moment is interested
in the teaching profession.

During the past year I have established a consulting practice in the
Chicago area, specializing in manufacturing and general manage-
ment. The work is both demanding and rewarding. Consulting pro-

vides substantial personal satisfactions, and the associations involved
are invariably interesting and stimulating.

[ 252]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN RICHARD COOKE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 59 Utility Rd., Scituate, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Safe Deposit & Trust Co., 100 Franklin St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1035-1936, 1937-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; A.M.

1949:
UNMARRIED.
OCCUPATION: Finance — trust officer i in estate planning department.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of South Shore.

PROFESSOR Sherburn used to tell about a minor English poet who,
in the days before there was a laureate, chose to memorialize the
passing of public figures in what he was pleased to regard as appropri-
ate verse. His efforts seemed to prove that it was possible to add
new horrors to death. During the early years after graduation, as
I anticipated the Twenty-fifth Reunion and the fateful tribal rite
that requires a public accounting of what has been done with a
quarter century, I was apprehensive that what I must write would
deserve the same kind of critical comment. .

As time went on, however, my concern about what my career
efforts would amount to vanished as I watched John Kennedy
emerge from our midst. An achievement so eventually towering
as his produces the only kind of humility of which I am capable,
and I now approach a significant anniversary with comparative calm
and serenity and even with a sense of vicarious self-realization.

“It is possible to summon up the past of the Army, the period of
teaching, both at Pomfret School and Tufts College, with some
satisfaction for the positive values derived and to rise above the
failures, at least in part. I still regard as exciting an interval back at
Harvard in 1949 when I picked up my A.M., even though in the

[253]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

same process I] came to the dread realization that a Ph.D. might
produce something for me, but not certainly enough nor satisfyingly
enough to justify the agonizing quest. In retrospect, my reasoning
at that critical moment sounded better than it was, and it might not
have prevailed had there not been other complicating factors that
reduced the deciston-making opportunities, the Korean war for one.

My contract at Tufts was renewed for only half-time teaching in
anticipation of the dimensions which that conflict was expected to
assume, and so I took what was intended to be a temporary job at
a Boston Trust Bank — where I still work, presumably on no more
temporary a basis than anyone else. Here I continue to teach, only
the effort is called selling by estate planning by some, and the un-
authorized practice of law by those less kindly disposed. Some-
where along the line ] made my commitment to the job, though it
has often seemed that the whole performance has been characterized
as at best an uneasy peace. Indeed, in many ways I still feel after
twenty-five years of “becoming” that no arrival point is in sight;
still less do 1 know how the arrival point may be defined.

In part, this acceptance of what is has evolved from several real-
izations, most of them forced on me when I made a clangorous en-
trance into the Heart Club in September of 1963. The forced period
of quiet self-appraisal to determine cause and effect was brought to
a profound conclusion by the death of Mr. Kennedy. The timing
could not fail to draw the past and future together into tragic
awareness that the human condition is too subject to frailty and
futility to justify the distorting emotion of great desire.

So I admit to knowing the difference between a pachyderm and
a pachysandra, and to making the most of every travel opportunity
possible, including the period of our Reunion when I hope to spend
the time finding out about those rains in Spain which have such
meaning to our particular class, I have not checked myself out of
the race for a wife, children, and a home, but I concede that if I

don’t soon get with it the gesture will be purely ceremonial.

Over the years I have felt strongly about a lot of causes, and at the
moment am most elated by the developments of the Ecumenical
movement and its potential power to lead the world a little closer to
the peaceable kingdom. I note that the great dialogue between the
Liberal and the Conservative that we thought might develop in the
political arena during the 1964 elections in this country did not, and

that there is a good possibility that it will turn out to have taken
place in profound form in Rome. For its ironic implications I am

[254]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

taken with the notion that the wave of Nationalism, which made such
a mess of our early years following graduation, has now begun to
function as a neutralizing force, one that might just limit the ex-
pansion of Communism, or at least retard its efficient drive to mono-
lithic unity and resulting conquest. “The wheel is come full circle.”

FREDERIC SHURTLEFF COOLIDGE

 

HOME ApprEss: 1 Buckeye Way, Kentfield, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Industrial Center Bldg., Sausalito, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Upper School, Kendal Green, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: $.B., magna cumt laude, 1940; B.ARCH. 1946.

MarRiED: Anne Crosby, Sept. 14, 1946. CHILDREN: Trilby, Nov. 12, 1952; Mary,

July 31, 1954; Sarah, June 10, 1958.

occupation: Self-employed architect.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Planning Board, Bear Creek Association.

MEMBER OF: Far West Ski Association (life member); American Institute of
Architects, National and California, American Academy in Rome; Sierra
Club; Phi Beta Kappa; Alpha Rho Chi; Alpone Meadows (ski area);

Museums, etc.

SINCE I left Harvard College, I attended the Harvard Graduate
School of Design, interrupted by three years with Aircraft Ordnance
during the war.

Then I got married and right away was given a fellowship by the
Academy in Rome to travel in Europe, studying architecture. My
wife and I went over, via Scandinavia, and had a very instructive
time, except that I became paralyzed due to a broken blood vessel in
my head which laid me up in Zurich for a Jong, long time.

Returning back to the United States after a year and a half, we
moved to Denver, Colorado, for a year, and then out to the west
coast. Here I worked for several architectural firms, and then went

[255]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

in for myself, building houses, a shopping center, a ski lodge, office
buildings, etc.

My wife and I had three daughters and are now beginning to live
our own lives again. She does mountain climbing and skiing, while
I, to be perverse, do skiing and mountain climbing. I like to do
shopwork in wood, and also photography. Also we now have a house
for skiing, up near Squaw Valley, and plan to spend a lot of time up
there.

Both my wife and myself like to go into the mountains, either
with groups from the Sierra Club or simply by ourselves, and we
have a lot of friends now that we have met in the mountains. There
seems to be a way of getting to know people this way that makes
for truer friendship.

We took a three weeks’ vacation in Europe two years ago, skiing
and revisiting some of the places in Switzerland that we got to know
during my earlier recuperation. It was wonderful the way that place
changes so little when compared to this country. We wish we could
go every year! And the skiing in Austria!

Am interested in civil rights and work with the ACLU and other
organizations. It is kind of slow going, however, Yet I feel it has to
be done, over and over again.

The kids are growing up 4 la California, and both of us miss the
tone of voice and pronunciation one grows up with in the East.
But they are wonderful kids, all the same.

USHER PARSONS COOLIDGE

 

HOME appreEss: Argilla Road, Ipswich, Mass.

orvice appress: Fogg Art Museum, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
02138,

[256]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., U7 laude, 1940; A.M., 1947.
MARRIED: Sylvia Smith, June 9, 1941. CHILDREN: Susan, Dec. 1, 1944; Hester,

Nov. 9, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Parsons Coolidge, '37, a.m., 39; John Templeman
Coolidge, Jr., ’41.

occuPaTION: Curator of Far Eastern art and archaeology; associate, Oriental
Department; research, care of the collections and occasional teaching.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant curator of Oriental Art, Art Institute of Chicago,
1949-53; assistant curator of Oriental Art, 1955-63, associate, 1964, Fogg
Art Museum; vice-president and director, Ipswich Historical Society,
since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Cliff Dwellers (social club), Chicago; Tavern Club, Boston; Essex
County Club, Beverly; Harvard Club of the North Shore.

PUBLICATIONS: “Religious Wood-Block Prints of the Far East,” Cambridge,
1948; “Chinese Sculpture,” Encyclopedia Britannica, 1962.

MY last quarter century started in the basement of the Fogg Art
Museum — a subterranean clutter of books and objects devoted to
the art of the Far East — and continues there today.

An initial half-year of graduate studies was rudely interrupted by
five years in the Navy on an ancient destroyer, on the lecture plat-
form of the Miami Subchaser School and finally aboard an APD.
Life at sea was dull, queasy and, at times, comic, but hardly ever
dangerous to the enemy or myself. The greatest satisfaction of this
period was the birth of a daughter in Miami Beach and the arrival of
a second at war’s end.

Ensconced in a diminutive house on the back of Beacon Hill, I re-
turned to graduate work in the Fogg basement and a tour of teaching
at Wellesley College.

The year 1949 found us in Chicago with the Art Institute. Five
years later health and a yearning for New England brought us back
to the basement for curatorial duties and occasional teaching. At
this point the Ipswich marshes lured us into buying a converted
summer house on the Castle Neck River. Here are combined the
joys of congenial neighbors, a superb view, small boats and enough
room to fire a shotgun —a hobby which, strangely, has not been
taken up by my daughters.

Two trips to the Orient to study monuments and museums were
humbling experiences but did add to the Fogg collection which is
more than can be said of a subsequent tour of Europe.

In the future there are hopes for an extended stay in the Far East
for study and research with the optimistic thought that China may
once again be open to “foreign barbarians.” Since American collec-

[257 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

tions and the Fogg Museum, in particular, are strong in Chinese art

and archaeology, it is extremely frustrating never to have seen the
mainland.

Despite the unwelcome atttude of the Chinese, the last twenty-
five vears have, for the most part, been rewarding, stimulating and

amusing. No world-shaking book has yet been written but there is
alwavs the next twenty-five years.

CHARLES ANTHONY COOMBS

r omer Cm . Teg eA te ag
i, "

   

HOME AbpRESS: Box 38, Green Village, N.J. 07935.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Reserve Bank of New York, New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940; M.P-A. 41;
AM., 42, PHD., 53.

MARRIED: llona Karman, April 5, 1945. cump: Claire, Dec. 10, 1949.
HARVARD BROTHER: John Chester Coombs, ’49.
occuPATION: Vice-president in charge of foreign department, Federal Reserve

Bank of New York, and special manager, Federal Reserve System Open
Marker Account.

. : 7
PUBLICATIONS: “Treasury and Federal Reserve Foreign Exchange Operations,’

March, 1961-August, 1964; “Conversations on International Finance,” with
three foreign central bankers.

AFTER completing two years at Littauer, | went into the Army
where I served as a counter-intelligence agent in Cairo and other
Middle East cities. After Greece was liberated in October, 1944, |
went on to Athens as financial adviser to the UNRRA Mission to
Greece and had an uncomfortably close-range view of a Communist
revolution which left Athens in ruins. During the shooting, I met a
rather brave young lady of French and Greek origin, and we were
married in April, 1945- After about a year’s work on the chaotic

[258]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

finances of Greece, I returned to New York where I joined the staff
of the Federal Reserve Bank of New York. In 1947 the Com-
munists made a second try at taking over Greece and I was asked to
return to Athens as financial adviser of the Truman Doctrine Aid
Mission to Greece. In 1949 and again in 1950, | was again given
leaves of absence by the Federal Reserve Bank of New York to do
financial advisory work in the Middle East. After spending most of
my time during the 1950's in the domestic area of the bank’s opera-
tions, I was appointed vice-president in charge of the foreign depart-
ment in April, 1959, just as the United States was slipping into a
heavy deficit in its international balance of payments. (The foreign
department conducts all of the gold and foreign exchange operations
of the U.S. Government while also serving as a banker for most of
the foreign central banks.) To deal with this dangerous situation,
we had to develop in a hurry a variety of defensive arrangements to
protect the dollar, including the London Gold Pool, the Federal Re-
serve swap network and other central bank cooperative arrange-
ments. I negotiated these arrangements and am responsible for con-
ducting the gold and foreign exchange operations of the Federal
Reserve and U.S. Treasury. Over the last four years, the pressure of
work has mounted steadily, including nearly forty trips to Europe.
All this has been exciting and professionally satisfying, but I hope
before long to get back to a more balanced life, including tennis,
golf, gardening, going to the opera and, most important of all, spend-
ing more time with my family.

MAURICE PUTNAM COON

 

HOME AppRESS: 92 Washington Ave., Cambridge, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS; 1384 Massachusetts Ave., Cambridge, Mass.

[259 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

prepareD aT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

aiarrieD: Katya Doolittle, Sept. 19, 1941. cHitpreN: Keilah D., June 12, 19423
Seth P., Sept. 30, 1944; Elena C,, Sept. 8, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Carleton Stevens Coon, 725.

cecuPaTios: Artist, sculptor, designer.

DURING my freshman year at Harvard I realized that the Fogg
was for future museum directors, not painters. They discouraged it.
For the next two years I worked with most of the best available
painters in this area. Realizing that something in the background was
lacking, I entered Lowell Technological Institute. I returned to
Harvard as a special graduate student, 1941-42 — with the Corps of
Engineers as head camoufleur in a division called, believe it or not,
Passive Protection. While there I had the opportunity to design
what is possibly the largest painting ever attempted in this area; the
complete descriptive pattern of Grenier Field, Manchester, New
Hampshire. We used tank trucks as paint brushes. Then I had a
call from the OSS and served with that organization for the re-
mainder of the war period, as a member of Detachment 101 in
Burma, 202 China; also the Arakan Forward Unit, Corps 15, British
13th Army; rank lieutenant colonel (Assm.),

Since then I have been engaged in design as it applies to industry,
Le., trying to make mass-produced items better-looking.

After a chronically crippling attack of arthritis I have devoted
myself to painting —I have gone full circle, since 1936.

Iam a registered Republican but vote a split ticket when I think
a deserving candidate is running. Religion: inactive Unitarian.

My comments on the future of the world: “Who cares?”

[ 260 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HERBERT COOPER

ar

7
fg
. ae %

 

HOME ADDRESS: 202 Burbank Drive, Snyder, N.Y. 14226.
OFFICE ADDRESS: New York Telephone Co., 11 Wards Lane, Menands, N.Y.

12204.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.; Phillips Exeter Academy,

Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; M.B.A., Cum laude, 1947.
MARRIED: Kama E. Cooper, 1944. CHILDREN: Arthur, 1949; Charles, 1951; Mal-

colm, 1957; Fiona, 1958.
OCCUPATION: District accounting manager, New York Telephone Company.
AFTER two years at the Business School, five years in the Army
and Air Force and eighteen years with the telephone company, I
find myself feeling both fortunate and happy. Problems? Sure —
but who doesn’t? The wonderful and varied experiences of living
with and raising a family make this life. And to answer the question

— Is this trip worthwhile? — you're doggone right it is!

_[ 261 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

LUKE KING COOPERRIDER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3095 Exmoor Rd., Ann Arbor, Mich.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Hutchins Hall, Ann Arbor, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Ohio State University High School and North High School,
Columbus, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: $.B., car laude, 1940; J. (Univ. of
Michigan), 1948.

MaRRIED: Virginia Harle, Nov. 28, 1945. CHILDREN: Peter Armitage, July 3,
1947; Mark Wilham, July 19, 1950; Carol Sue, Jan. 25, 1952.

occupation: Professor of law, University of Michigan Law School.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles and reviews in law journals,

TWENTY-FIVE years? 9,131 days, perhaps, but not the quarter
part of a century!

There was a short interim with the Ohio Department of ‘Taxation,
lasting only until St. Valentine’s Day. Then the Signal Corps for five
years — draftee, officer candidate, instructor at O.C.S., and staff
officer assigned to supply planning for operations (Iwo Jima and
Okinawa) supported by the Army’s central Pacific command (Hono-
lulu). Separated as a major.

Then there was law school (University of Michigan), four years
of practice in Cleveland (Squire, Sanders & Dempsey, 1948-52), and
the return to Michigan to teach.

Virginia was a V.J. bonus. We cherish the memory of the happy
post-war days in Honolulu and of those that followed in law school.
Our first home was a decrepit shack with primitive facilities in a war-
time industrial housing project, but there were 5000 like us, married

students with incipient or young families, in the same place at the

same time. It was a unique and warming experience regarded by
many of us with nostalgia.

{ 262 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Law practice was fascinating, but a taste for the academic pre-
vailed —a desire to contemplate the system, perhaps even to the
point of understanding. The irony: The academy, with 30,000 stu-
dents and preparing for 50,000, faintly suggests the wartime supply
depot in Baltimore, where messengers made their rounds on roller
skates. The hum of activity deafens. The principal compensation
is the classroom. Teaching is perennially challenging, perpetually
rewarding, and the world’s best antidote for overconfidence.

Pete will start college next year — where is not yet decided, but
we think to one of the smaller schools. All these years the thing for
him was science. No other field of intellectual activity merited the
most casual consideration, till suddenly in the senior year a group
of gifted teachers cracked the shell and revealed to him the hu-
manities. The mind of youth is a funny thing.

And so for that matter is the mind of middle age; for who can
explain the dialogue of the 1964 election when in Asia the great
famine and in America the coagulation of the rivers and lakes, an
automation-forced socialization, and the terminal, continental traffic
jam — are they more than another twenty-five years away?

WILLIAM ANDREW CORDINGLEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6625 Dakota Trail, Minneapolis 24, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Minneapolis Star and Tribune, Minneapolis 15, Minn,
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarrieD: Mary Bowles, March 17, 1942, CHILDREN: William Andrew, Jr., July
18, 1948; Thomas Kent, Feb. 14, 1950; Constance Louise, May 20, 1955.
OccUPATION: National advertising manager, Minneapolis Star and Tribune;
sales manager of national sales staff and representatives selling advertising
to manufacturers and distributors and services. .

[ 263 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

MATHEW COSTANTINO

 

LAST KNOWN aAppreEss: 21 Trenton St., East Boston 28, Mass. (Lost.)

JOHN JAMES COSTELLO

 

HOME apprEss: 88 Greene St., North Andover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Essex County Court House, Salem, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Johnson High School, North Andover, Mass.; St. John’s Pre-
paratory School, Danvers, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940, ED.M. (Boston Coll.), 1941.

UNMARRIED,
occupation: Public official; Register of Probate and Insolvency, County of
Essex, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Planning Board, 1939-43, Post War Public Works
Committee, 1943-45, School Committee, 1946-48, School Building Com-
mittee, 1946-48, Town Manager Study Committee, i950, Town of North
Andover, research analyst, 1941-43, acting secretary, 1944-46, assistant
secretary, 1947-48, Boston Municipal Research Bureau, economist, Region
1, Boston, National War Labor Board, 1943, Register of Probate and In-
solvency, County of Essex, June~November, 1946, 1949-66; delegate, Sev-

[ 266 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

enth Congressional District, Democratic Convention, Chicago, 1952; dele-
gate, Town of North Andover, Democratic State Convention, Springfield,
Mass., 1954; member, North Andover Town Committee; charter member
and first treasurer, Monsignor Shea Council 3819, Knights of Columbus,
North Andover.

MEMBER OF: Essex Institute, Men of Merrimack; Bon Secours Hospital Guild;
Model A Ford Club of America, North Shore Old Car Club; Community
Center of North Andover; North Andover Scholarship Foundation,

pusLications: Master's thesis, “The Rule-Making Power of the School Com-
mittee as Interpreted by the Supreme Judicial Court of Massachusetts,”
numerous special reports and studies on city finance and the government
of the City of Boston—written while a member of the staff of the
Boston Municipal Research Bureau.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago I received a 1940 Class Album question-
naire. One question requested the intended career of the graduates.
I listed my intended vocation as “politician” since I had been elected
to public office at the North Andover town election on March 6,
1939, as a twenty-two-year-old junior. I am happy to report that I
have carried out my career commitments, and have held public office
for more than twenty-five years in town and county government in
Massachusetts.

As a bachelor my family report is necessarily brief. I live a rather
quiet and well-ordered life with my mother who has always taken an
active interest in my political campaigns. I derive satisfaction from
the care and maintenance of our colonial residence and grounds, and
I devote considerable time to the development of my rather extensive
library in American history and government.

I also take a keen interest in the activities of my two nephews.
Michael Costello, a senior at Northwestern University, spent last
summer in Yugoslavia as an exchange student and seems headed for
the diplomatic corps. Anthony Costello, an actor, recently appeared
in a prominent role in one of the “Profiles in Courage” series —
“The Leo Frank Case of 1915.” He was cast in the role of secretary
to Governor Slaton of Georgia, played by Walter Matthau.

Another hold-over from my college days is my 1931 Model A
Ford. I purchased the roadster for thirty-five dollars to provide
daily transportation between my North Andover home and Cam-
bridge. I am now restoring the ancient vehicle and I am active in
antique auto groups.

[ 267 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

NICHOLAS JOHN COTSONAS, JR.

    

  

HOME AppREsS: 809 S. Marshfield Ave., Apt. 510, Chicago, Ill. 60612.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Research & Educational Hospitals, University of Illinois, 840
S. Wood St., Chicago, Ill. 60612.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940: M.D., cum laude (Georgetown
Univ.), 1943.

MarrieD: Dorothy Frances Johnson, Dec. 20, 1943. CHILDREN: Nicholas John,
3d, July 11, 1947; Bruce Daniel, March 29, 1952; Elena Catherine, Nov. 14,
1955-

occupaTion: Professor of medicine, University of Illinois College of Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee and program chairman, United
Campus Christian Fellowship, Westminster House, Chicago, 1964-65;
member, Camp Committee, Oak Park YMCA,-since 1959; chairman, In-
ternal Medicine Division, Committee on Postgraduate Medical Education,
Chicago Medical Society, 1963-64; assistant editor, Disease-a-Month Series,
since 1960.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate); Alpha Omega
Alpha Honor Medical Society; Society of the Sigma Xi; American Med1-
cal Association; American College of Physicians (fellow); Council on
Clinical Cardiology, American Heart Association (fellow); Chicago Heart
Association, Chicago Medical Society, Hlinois State Medical Society;
American Federation for Clinical Research.

Publications: Articles on medicine and medical education in professional
journals,

] WAS married the day after graduation from medical school and on
New Year’s day, 1944, began an internship at Gallinger Municipal
Hospital (now the District of Columbia General Hospital). In
October I was called to active duty and, after a brief period at the
March Field AF Station Hospital (Riverside, California), 1 joined
the 813th Engineer Aviation Battalion as battalion surgeon. I re-
member well the seventeen months on Okinawa.

[ 268 |

—~__J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Following my discharge from service, I returned to Gallinger
Hospital and completed my training in internal medicine. This was
also an exciting and satisfying period in my life; it was also the period
in which my first son was born (I didn’t get to enjoy the first two
years of his life as much as I enjoyed the other two children).

From July 1, 1949, to July 16, 1951, I was on the faculty of my
medical alma mater, spending most of my time at Gallinger. During
this period I spent part of my time in private practice — enough to
discover I preferred full-time academic life more. From July 17,
1951, to December 31, 1953, I served as chief medical officer of the
Medical Division, District of Columbia General Hospital. My time
was spent in (what I call) “people-connected” activities — patient
care, student and house staff teaching, and administration.

I recall that, during most of this time, I plagued myself with the
fact that I was spending almost no time in research. At that time I
believed it was because I “couldn’t find the time.” I think it was this
state of mind that led me to break away from Gallinger. I joined the
faculty of the University of Illinois College of Medicine and
supervised, for the next four years, the junior medical clerkship on
the Illinois Wards of the Cook County Hospital in Chicago.

This, again, was an exciting, interesting and consuming task. I
began (only began) to admit to myself why I couldn’t find time for
clinical research, although I worked hard for varying intervals on
several projects, alone and with others.

Since September 1, 1956, I have administered the Clinics of the
Department of Medicine and the outpatient medical experience of
senior students at the University Hospital. In retrospect, I very
slowly accepted the kind of person I am—JI remain what I was
earlier, only on a “grander” scale because I have had a “grander”
opportunity to which I have responded. I remain a clinician, teacher
and administrator — what little research I do now is in the field of

medical education and directly supports and sustains my primary
responsibilities.

[ 269 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ROBERT DOUGLAS COTTAM

 

Me Appress: Argilla Road, Ipswich, Mass.
"ICE ADRESS: A. C. Lawrence Leather Co., Peabody, Mass.
pareD aT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

RS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, #agna cum laude, 1940; M.B.A,
cum laude, 1947.

grtED: Marion Elizabeth Swift, Oct. 4, 1941. CHILDREN: Carol Ann, Feb. 2,
1945; Pamela Jean, Aug. 25, 1947.

xPaTIoN: General office, leather tanners.

cES HELD: President, Ipswich P.T.A., Secondary and High School, mem-
ber, School Building Committee and Town Government Study Com-
mittee for Ipswich; board member, treasurer and First Reader, First
vhurch of Christ, Scientist, Ipswich.

BER OF: Roxbury Latin School Alumni Association, Harvard Business
school Association; Japan Society of Boston,

ENTLY when our youngest daughter was being interviewed
prospective candidate for a college the individual interviewing
urned to me and asked, “What was the most important thing
feel you got out of Harvard?” Well, after thinking this over
few moments, I said, “I think probably it’s what Harvard has
t to me as the years go on.”

netimes J think this is due to living relatively close to Harvard,
eing in the Square occasionally, or perhaps because our two
ters are college age right now and college days, in a way, are
relived in our experience.

I'm sure it’s more than all this, and may be best summarized
aller and deeper appreciation of a rather intangible thought,
ta thought that is tangibly expressed in many ways in every-
e... and that is what Harvard really means... the many

tes that I tell our girls about, the points of view expressed i in

[ 270 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY: REPORT

classes, idiosyncrasies, and so on — and perhaps an increasing aware-
ness of the meanings of tradition, and the adaptation and expansion
of these traditions to new situations, but primarily the disbursement
of ideas. I am sure of one thing: a lot of ideas I had twenty-five years
ago have changed in my thinking — maybe more conservative but
a lot of people around me wouldn’t agree with that.

Living in Ipswich has brought opportunities to be involved in
school and town affairs. In business, ’'ve been fortunate to have had
a wide variety of activities: accounting, sales, general management
... and to do a fair amount of traveling. The tanning industry is a
fascinating business.

Hobbies: Gardening, classical music, Japanese history and art,

and my VW.

RICHARD JOSEPH COTTER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 109 Surplus St., Duxbury, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1359 Hancock St., Quincy, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LL.B., 1944.

MarRIED: Danielle Amrani, July 1948 (divorced 1953).

occuPATION: Attorney, self-employed.

MEMBER OF: Union Boat Club; Old Colony Harvard Club; Massachusetts, Nor-
folk County and Quincy Bar Associations,

AFTER graduating from college and before entering law school I
attended the summer school at San Marcos University at Lima, Peru,
where I continued the pursuit of Spanish to the point of some fluency.
- Following law school, I went to work at the office of the Attorney
General of the Commonwealth, first as a legal assistant and later as
an Assistant Attorney General. In 1946 I became associated with

[271 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

the Boston law firm of Warner, Stackpole, Stetson & Radlee, where I
was occupied for the most part with trial work. I also did some teach-
ing of evening law courses for a few years. I remained with this
firm for ten years, at the end of which time I took part in the forma-
tion of a new firm at Quincy, Massachusetts, entitled Barrett, Ross,
Cotter & Burke. After the passage of eight years I continue prac-
using law at Quincy. My practice during this period has been
general with a large percentage of probate work.

After living for short periods at Cambridge and Brookline, I
moved permanently to Duxbury in 1952 and continue to maintain
my home there,

I have never entered politics as a principal but have taken part in
a few campaigns to support and assist friends who were running for
office.

Prior to my moving to Duxbury, I was active in rowing for
recreation and exercise and also took part in some regattas. Since
moving away from Boston, my chief hobby has been horses and this
I have pursued to the limited extent that time has permitted, riding,
driving, grooming, etc., with some showing,

I try to maintain a reasonable balance between work and recrea-
tional or intellectual pursuits.

THOMAS EDWARD COTTER, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE aDpress: 65 Clark St., Belmont 78, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.B.A., 1947.
UNMARRIED.

occupation: Salesman, principal of Tom Cotter’s Sons, food brokers.
OFFICES HELD: Field Artillery officer, World War IL.

[ 272]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

meMBER OF: New England Confectioners’ Club; Harvard Club of Boston;
Nashua Lodge of Elks.

AFTER five years in the Army, mostly with the Third Armored
Division, a very competent outfit, a year at the Business School, two
years with Nashua Paper, I have enjoyed selling candy. The
Organized Reserve gave me mental and physical exercise for some
years. Work takes me through the New England States, eastern New
York and part of New Jersey. Recreation and travel have taken me
to forty-odd states, Canada and to parts of Europe.

ALEXANDER ROBERTSON COWPER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2398 Shadagee Rd., Eden, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 543 Franklin St., Buffalo 2, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Nichols School, Buffalo, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; M.D. (Univ. of Buffalo), 1946.

MarrieD: Margaret T. Neison, June 24, 1946. CHILDREN: Thomas Robertson,
March, 1947; James Richard, April, 1949.

occuPaTion: Ophthalmologist.

OFFICES HELD: Clinical associate in surgery, State University at Buffalo; as-
sistant attending ophthalmologist, Children’s Hospital; clinical assistant
in ophthalmology, Buffalo General Hospital, Buffalo Eye & Ear Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Buffalo Club; Wanakah Country Club; University Club; Buffalo
Ophthalmologic Club; Buffalo Academy of Medicine; American Academy
of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology.

PUBLICATIONS: “Harada’s Disease and Vogt Koyanagi Syndrome,” Archives of
Ophthalmology, April, 1951; “Angioid Streaks,” Archives of Ophthalmol-

ogy, June, 1954.

[ 273 ]

SEE

HARVARD CLASS OF I] 940

JOHN EDWIN CRANE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 36 Ridge Acres Rd., Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Crum & Forster, 110 William St., New York, N.Y. 10038.

PREPARED AT: Richmond High School, Richmond, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, ¢u7 laude, 1940; M.B.A. (New York
Univ.), 1948.

MarriED: Phyllis Abbott Bockhoff, Dec. 24, 1941. cHmLpREN: David Bockhoff,
Oct. 10, 1942; Deborah Sellers, Oct. 20, 1945, Catheley Chase, Aug. 22,
1949.

HARVARD SON: David Bockhoff Crane, a.n., magna cum laude, 1964.

OCCUPATION: Financial vice-president, Crum & Forster, insurance management
and holding company; primary activity— investment portfolio manage-
ment; vice-president, U.S. Fire Insurance Company, North River Insur-
ance Company, Westchester Fire Insurance Company and International
Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, vice-president and member, Investment Committee,
YWCA Retirement Fund, since 1958; member, board of managers and
Finance Committee, American Bible Society, since 1960; trustee, Elfun
Trust, 1961-64; member, Budget Committee, Darien Fund, 1961-64; direc-
tor, National Automatic Tool Company, Inc., Richmond, Ind., since 1954.

MEMBER OF: New York Society of Security Analysts; Silvermine Golf Club;
Harvard Club of New York.

THESE paragraphs are probably the only words I shall ever put
down for posterity to ponder over. And they have not come easily.
My early drafts—full of cosmic but corny comments about the role
of hucksterized heroes in our paternalistic society — seemed ran-
corous and, what's worse, borrowed.

Later efforts leaned on the chronological narrative — our genera-
tion grew up in a depression, matured in a war and shared in the
postwar quantum jump in science and social affairs — all that bit.
But then this is supposed to be at least somewhat autobiographical,
and I disclaim any responsibility for either causing or curing the

[274]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

depression; my fifty-six months as a military pilot did not measur-
ably prolong the war, for which they gave me the D.F.C.; and even
my contribution to the population explosion is something less than
quantum. I couldn’t think of any other prods I’ve provided to the
great leap forward.

So, what’s left? This review became so discouraging I began to
wonder why I haven’t retired to a walnut ranch. But then some of
the positives came back into focus, such as several kids with who’
knows how many more years of college and / or medical school
still ahead, or the eternal hope of learning how to hit a straight putt.
Small pleasures, perhaps, but reasonably satisfying. Besides, some-
one else bought the walnut ranch. I wonder if he’s a great social
frontiersman?

JESSE WILLIAM CROACH, JR-

   

  

a in le a an BE a a a re

ei HSA eR: mitt,

  

HOME appreEss: Church Hill Road, R.D, 2, Landenberg, Pa. 19350.

OFFICE ADpREss: Atomic Energy Division, E. I]. duPont de Nemours Co., Wil-
mington, Del.

PREPARED AT: Tilghman High School, Paducah, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940.

MarrigD: Jane Terry, 1944. CHILD: Hilary, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Assistant technical director, Atomic Energy Division.

HIRED by duPont July, 1940; have been with the company ever
since. Initially located at Burnside Laboratory working in the field
of interior ballistics. Have had varied assignments in the explosives
department, with a brief (two-year) stretch with Remington Arms
Company. Was assigned to Atomic Energy Division in 1950. Spent
three years at Argonne National Laboratory in liaison work while
Savannah River plant was being built at Aiken, South Carolina. From

[275]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

1953 through 1963, held positions at Savannah River Laboratory
ranging from manager of Theoretical Physics Division to assistant
director of the Laboratory (with a year’s assignment as general
superintendent of the w orks technical department, Savannah River
plant, 1961). Effective the beginning of 1964, became the assistant
technical director of the Atomic Energy Division, located in Wil-
mington, Delaware, and still hold that position.

Married Jane Terry of Wilmington, Delaware, in 1944. Have one
son, Hilary, aged fifteen. Interests away from work: mathematics,
electronics, amateur radio (formerly W4AIB, now W3BGD), music
(choir and folk songs), and civil defense.

+ ROY CAMPBELL CROSBY

 

Born: Oct, 11, 1918, Framingham, Mass, parents: Vincent Irving Crosby,
Florence Campbell.

PREPARED AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; M.D. (Tufts Coll.),
1944.

marrieD: Josephine V. Charland, Feb. 19, 1944, Brookline, Mass. CHILDREN:
David Richard, April 7, 1945; Susan Frances, June 21, 1947, Roy Campbell,
Jr., Sept. 6, 1948, Vincent Paul, Aug. 26, 1949, Brenda; Martha.

pep: July 20, 1958, Marlboro, Mass.

AFTER medical school, internship and training for the specialty of
internal medicine, Crosby spent two years as assistant director of
the Bingham Associates Program of Medical Care and instructor in
internal medicine and a staff member at the Pratt Diagnostic Hospital
in Boston. Since 1949 he had been in the private practice of internal
medicine in Boise, Idaho. He was killed in an airplane crash and was
survived by his wife and children,

[ 276 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SAMUEL CROWTHER, UI

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 113 Sullivan St., New York, N.Y. 10012.

JOSEPH RILEY CRUMP

 

HOME ADpRESS: 2018 Timber Lane, Houston, Texas 77027.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Houston Research Institute, Inc., 5417 Crawford, Houston,
Texas 77004.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940,

MarRIED: Ruth Squire Grace, Jan. 13, 1943. CHILDREN: David Lyman, Nov. 30,
1943; Stephen Walter, July 14, 1946, John Joseph, Oct. 8, 1948; James
Grace, Aug. 16, 1951; Ruth Grace, Oct. 8, 1953.

HARVARD sons: David Lyman Crump, ’66; Stephen Walter Crump, 68.

OccUPATION: Business man— college professor; president, Houston Research
Institute, Inc., R & D and engineering; professor of engineering and direc-
tor of research, University of Houston.

OFFICES HELD: Professor and chairman, Department of Chemical Engineering,
1949-58, associate dean of engineering, 1958-6o, director of research, since
1960, University of Houston; president and director, Houston Research

[277]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940
Institute, Inc., since 1963; officer and director of a number of other
(small) corporations,
MEMRBER OF: Houston Club; Boston Club (New Orleans); Harvard Club of

Houston; American Chemical Society; American Institute of Chemical
Engineers; ASME, A. and N. Club, Washington, D.C.

AFTER leaving Harvard I served in the Navy through 1946.
Practically all of my duty was in combat submarines, largely on the
USS. Hake. With about forty-eight months of sea duty out of fifty-
four months in the Navy, the “rotation plan” for me meant rotation
from the Caribbean to the North Atlantic to the Southwest Pacific;
but I came out, nonetheless, with a wife and one son and lots of tales
to tell.

From that point on, I have been leading a double life: business
and education. We moved to Houston in January, 1946. After a
short period with McKesson & Robbins, I commenced a series of
small business ventures, mostly successful, in manufacturing, pipe
lining, and petroleum.

In| 1948 I joined the faculty of the University of Houston and be-
came successively chairman of the Department of Chemical Engineer-
ing, associate dean of engineering, and director of research. The
present post is university-wide and, hence, qualifies me as an expert in
biophysics, musicology, chemical engineering, sociology, or linguis-
tics, to name a few — or at least in the shuffling of papers relating
thereunto. But there will come a day —and then happily back to
classroom, lab, and library.

On the business side, in 1952 [ joined two colleagues to found
Prengle, Dukler & Crump, an engineering design firm which became
by 1960 one of the largest professional chemical engineering firms
in the Southwest. At that point, a reorientation occurred toward a
combination of applied research and development and engineering
design. In 1963 the firm was reorganized as Houston Research In-
stitute, Inc., and is getting along well at this point with projects
ranging all the way from bread-and-butter engineering design in
refining and petrochemicals to R&D for “outer space.” (I am

beginning to try my hand at ranching, too, but I need another
quarter-century to make much progress there.)

Hobbies continue as before: camping (wilderness style) in Texas,
Ontario and North Carolina, largely, and music, anywhere. The
family at home is smaller now with two sons at Harvard, but per-
haps ‘the earlier grandchildren will arrive before the fifth, our
daughter, departs. The lives of that daughter and four sons, the

[ 278]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

presence of two of those sons at Harvard, and a career which cen-
ters more and more on education and research must testify to a faith
in the future. But such faith must be maintained in the face of utter-
ly discouraging events. Man’s capacity for good or evil grows apace,
and seemingly far outdistances his capacity to distinguish and choose
between the two. All of the binding elements of our culture seem
to be failing. “Mere anarchy is loosed upon the world.” The gap
between wealth and need grows continuously, in spite of secure
knowledge that we can relieve nearly all of the world’s suffering.
Each one of us faces an intensely personal responsibility to do all
that he can in a worsening world — all the more so since individual
man was never more alone in “his own” world.
"HOos avOparw Saipov

++ DANIEL RUDOLPH CRUSIUS

 

BORN: April 2, 1918, Chicago, Ill. parents: Paul Nicholas Crusius, ’o9, Pauline

Trion.

PREPARED AT: York Community High School, Elmhurst, Ill,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940; A.M.
(Univ. of Wisconsin), 1941; PH.D. (ibid.), 1951.

MARRIED: Vera Claussen, Dec. 27, 1947, Malone, Wis. cHiLpREN: Carl Philip,
Dec. 13, 1953; Paul Frederick, July 14, 1955; Philip Norman, Jan. 2, 1957.

DIED: Feb. 27, 1964, Youngstown, Ohio,

wipow: Mrs. Daniel R. Crusius, 101 Chambers St., Greenville, Pa.

DANIEL RUDOLPH CRUSIUS spent four years with our Class
and was a member of the German Club, American Civilization Group
and the Dunster House crew and Debating Club, After college he
entered the University of Wisconsin where he was a fellow and
graduate assistant until called to active duty in the Navy for four

[279 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

and a half years, returning to the university for graduate study after
the war. From 1948 to 1951, he was an instructor in German at
Franklin and Marshall College and then spent two years on active
duty with the Navy in Washington. In 1953 he entered government
service and after six years in ‘Germany was with the U.S. Arm
Security Agency at Fort George G. Meade, Maryland. In 1962 he
was at Thiel College in Greenville, Pennsylvania. He was survived
by his wife and children.

CHARLES WILLIS CURTIS, III

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 940 Orchard Ave., S.E., East Grand Rapids 6, Mich.

+ FRAZIER CURTIS

 

BoRN: June 6, 1918, New York, N.Y. parents: James Freeman Curtis, ’99, Laura
Merriam.

prepare AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.
[ 280 ]

ES ee eee Mh

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B., Cuz laude, 1940.
piep: Killed in a plane crash, Dec. 23, 1942, in Mississippi.

AFTER graduation Curtis entered the Air Force and received his
commission and wings in February, 1942. He was promoted to first
lieutenant and became the first permanent commander of the 38th
Dive Bomber Squadron of which he was one of the principal organ-
izers. While leading his squadron on a return flight from combat
maneuvers, he was killed in a plane crash in Mississippi. He was
posthumously awarded the Air Medal and was survived by his
parents.

SIDNEY QUINN CURTISS

 

HOME AppREss: Sheffield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Great Barrington, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1947.

MARRIED: Eleanore J. Leach, Jan. 6, 1946. CHILDREN: Jonathan Quinn, Feb. 20,
1947; Melissa Jane, Aug. 20, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; Republican leader, Massachusetts House of Representa-
tives, since 1961.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Massachusetts General Court, since 1949; assistant Re-
publican floor leader, 1957-61, leader, since 1961; Sheffield (Town) Mod-
erator, since 1951; public administrator, Berk County, since 1956; title ex-
aminer, Massachusetts Law Court, since 1953; Republican State Com-
mittee member, 1951-62, member, executive committee, since 1964; chair-
man, Sheffield Republican Town Committee, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Legislators’ Association; V.F.W.; American Legion;
Lions; Berk Historical Society; Massachusetts Republican Club; Modera-
tors Association, Berk bar; Massachusetts bar; Town Counsel and City
Solicitor’s Associations; Masons; Special Commission on Taxation in Massa-
chusetts, since 1953; member, Governor's Advisory Board on Mental

[ 281 ]

Recor ciel Sloth on cl ants nba Ht

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Health, since 1964; Veteran of World War II (former company com-
mander); etc,

AFTER leaving college upon graduation, I started studying law at
Boston University. In 1941 [ enlisted in the Army and served in the
European theatre until 1945, through every grade from private to
first lieutenant. In 1946 I re-entered Boston University Law School
and received my LL.B. and was admitted to the bar the following
year. Since that time I have engaged i in a general practice of law at
Great Barrington. All the intervening years have been devoted to
law, politics in Massachusetts, raising a family and making a living.

As in my college days, I still maintain a tremendous interest in the
future of the Republican Party (I was Young Republican college
treasurer in 1940) and hope to see it restored as our best hope of
maintaining and preserving responsible representative government
in our time.

HENRY AUSTEN CURWEN

a ny

 

 

 

>

A WA

HOME AppREsS: 1821 Braeburn Rd., Altadena, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Earle M. Jorgensen Co., 10650 S. Alameda St., Los Angeles,
Calif.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940,

marniep: Ann Mason, July 4, 1943. cHiLpReN: Sally, May 7, 1947; Henry
Robert, May 7, 1949; Thomas Calvert, Nov, 11, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Darcy Curwen, ’43; William Lynch Curwen, ’s5o.

occupation: Technical director, Earle M. Jorgensen Company, steel and
aluminum distributor and manufacturer,

orFices HELD: Chairman, Los Angeles Chapter, American Society for Metals,
1959, Western Metals Congress, 1961, National Metals Engineering Pro-

[ 282 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gram Committee, 1962; president, Phillips Exeter Academy Alumni Asso-
ciation of Southern California,

MEMBER oF: American Society for Metals; American Society for Testing Ma-
terials; Altadena Town & Country Club; Harvard Club of Southern
California; Los Angeles Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Papers and articles on subjects related to steel.

MY life over the past twenty-five years, viewed from the outside,
seems very placid and not marked by any spectacularly outstand-
ing successes, failures, or events. I have been exposed, however, to
a variety of situations— some fascinating, some challenging, and
some dull and uninteresting. As I look back, however, there is little
that I would want to do differently if 1 had a second chance. The
many situations and experiences have broadened and enriched my
life.

While still in college, I had the good fortune to be exposed to the
steel industry — the spectacular part which consists of open hearths,
electric furnaces, and rolling mills. I became fascinated by all I saw,
and the last two summers of college which were spent working in a
steel mill increased my interest and enthusiasm for this business.
Upon graduating, I started to work for the Copperweld Steel
Company, Warren, Ohio. In addition to acquiring practical ex-
perience in the metallurgical laboratory and on the electric steel-
making furnaces, I enrolled for graduate courses at Case Institute in
Cleveland. Life was complacent and serene — I was learning how to
make steel — until war was declared.

I attempted to join the Navy as a commissioned officer, but my
eyesight was not up to their standards at the time. The Army, how-
ever, was far less particular and were happy to have me—as a
private. My steel experience guided me into the Ordnance Corps.
After the usual training camp experiences, I went to O.C.S., received
a second lieutenant commission, and was assigned to an anti-aircraft
ordnance maintenance unit. I saw my share of the world — Texas,
California, England, France, Belgium, Holland, and Germany. After
the collapse of Germany, I was able to get into military govern-
ment, and spent an informative and interesting year near Bremen
being exposed to many of the problems and complexities of the im-
mediate post-war Germany.

One result of my _ travels— particularly to California — was
meeting the girl who became my wife. Another result was that I
was convinced that I did not want to return to Warren, Ohio, to
work as first helper in an electric furnace. When I was discharged

[ 283 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

with the rank of captain, I returned to Southern California and
joined a Los Angeles-based steel company where I have been ever
since.

As the West has grown industrially, our company has grown. My
work has exposed me to everything from the fascinating aerospace
industry to general manufacturing. Over the past few years a drastic
revolution has taken place in the steel industry with new alloys being
formulated and new techniques being developed to meet these
alloys. My current responsibilities as technical director for the
company are to keep up with the latest developments in the ma-
terials field and to translate engineering requirements into available
alloys. In my position I find it necessary to present a paper from
time to time to technical societies and to write an occasional article.
I have also been active in several technical societies.

My family life has been equally full with the raising of three
children. Working in the metropolitan area of Los Angeles and
living in the suburb of Altadena, I have to qualify as a suburbanite.
IT managed to survive that period when all the children’s activities
were completely over-organized with all of their waking hours
planned and programmed to include father or mother. And so our
participation has run the gamut of community affairs from the PTA
to Little League. It has included our share of the usual worthy fund-
raising campaigns and even several political campaigns. Our summer
vacations have been spent exploring California from the seacoast to
the high Sierra Nevadas.

Of all our experiences as a family, those on the ocean have proved
most lasting; and so our attention and activities are currently being
redirected. We have given up that occasional game of tennis and
golf to spend all our spare time on a class sailboat. We are now
exploring the off-shore islands and learning the techniques of occan
racing.

With three children who are rapidly growing up, we fall in com-
mon with all parents facing the difficulties of school and college ad-
mission. Harvard, we are led to believe, is slowly changing its
admissions policy to accepting boys on general rather than purely
scholastic promise. We hope that this will give our sons a chance
to experience the delights and benefits of the college years which I

enjoyed twenty-five years ago and which their grandfather enjoyed
fifty years ago.

[ 284 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ERIC CUTLER

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 439 Gay St., Westwood, Mass.
OFFICE aDpREss: Harvard University, 910 Holyoke Center, Cambridge, Mass.
prePARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.
mMarRiED: Nancy Ware, July 2, 1940. CHILDREN: Erica, June 2, 1941 (m. F,
Monroe Labouisse, Jr., Sept. 12, 1963); Abbot Ware, May 1, 1943; Joshua
Wingate Carr, Dec. 15, 1947; Nathan Storer, Nov. 18, 1949; Elisabeth,
Nov. 8, 1956. GRANDCHILD: Nancy Labouisse, Sept. 18, 1964.
HARVARD SON: Abbot Ware Cutler, ’65.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Robert Bradley Cutler, 735, B.arcu., 39; Roger Wilson Cut-
ler, Jr., 737, LL.B., "40; Joseph Clark Bradley, °39 (brother by adoption).
OCCUPATION: Education administrator; assistant director of admissions and
scholarships to students at Harvard College.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Massachusetts Audubon Society, 1953-583 trustee
(alumni representative), Noble and Greenough School, 1964-67.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Dedham Country and Polo Club; Bos-
ton Madison Square Garden Club; Nuthall Club; Massachusetts Audubon

Society.

IN looking back at twenty-five years of living since graduating from
Harvard, it is not without trepidation that one bears on the subject
and attempts a recall of what has been.

By the mundane measurement of jobs I am now on the payroll of
employer number seven and I have it on good authority that this is
a lucky number. A seemingly permanent attachment is developing
with Harvard University where I am currently laboring in the Col-
lege Admissions Office which ts a familiar spot to some of my class-
mates. Harvard has been the most satisfactory employer by a reason-
able margin although I have enjoyed other occupations in the
business world as well as flying for Uncle Sam over the Mediter-

ranean theatre.
[ 285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

My hobbies have not wavered since long before Harvard College
came into view and I look forward to continuing them and increasing
my scope in all three: philately, photography and ornithology. I
suppose that attempting to observe my share in the Physical Fitness
Program passes for a hobby, as well, and I look forward to trouncing
my son-in-law in tennis some time in the dim, unforeseeable future.
I would also enjoy, tremendously, the ego-inflating effect of a clean,
no “gimmes,” victory over some lady golfers that I know and ex-
change golf balls with on occasion. This, again, seems to be in the
dim, unforeseeable future.

The maudlin part of this account could be in this next paragraph
—and last one — but I shall be brief in stating that my wife and I
have been extremely happy for the nearly twenty-five years that we

have now been married. We have also been unusually fortunate with
our five offspring who have done creditably well in their endeavors
and all seem to enjoy firm friendships, reasonable intelligence and
good health. My personal ambitions run a great deal more toward
their happiness than any great accomplishment on my part.

Other areas of my career shall remain obscure so that, perhaps,
we will all have something to say twenty-five years hence.

GEORGE CHALMERS CUTLER

 

HOME ApDpress: South Hamilton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 50 State St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: $.B., 1940; LL.B., 1948.

MmarrieD: Phyllis Tuckerman, June 18, 1940. CHILDREN: Phyllis, May 1, 1941;

George Chalmers, Jr., Dec. 13, 1945; Phoebe, Jan. 18, 1947; Grace, Dec.
26, 1949; Camilla, July 17, 1954.

[ 286 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupaTioN: Lawyer; vice-president and secretary, Massachusetts Hospital
Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Hamilton Planning Board; director, The Home for
Incurables; trustee, St. Timothy’s School; member, Hamilton School
Building Needs Committee.

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Myopia Hunt Club; Manchester Yacht Club; The
Indoor Court, Inc.; Porcellian Club; City Club Corporation, San Diego
Athletic Club.

RALPH HINCHMAN CUTLER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: Red Gate Road, Morristown, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 Park Ave., New York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B,, 1940; M.B.A., 1947.

MARRIED: Jean Elizabeth Lee, Oct. 6, 1953. cHiLpreN: Timothy Griswold, July
28, 1955; Stewart Lee, May 27, 1957; Cynthia Fearn, July 30, 1959.

occupaTION: International trade and finance; vice-president, chief of Overseas
Division, C, Tennant Sons & Company of New York.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Economic Planning Committee, National Council of
American Importers, since 1964; chairman, Citizens’ Committee for Morris
County Parks, 1961-63; director, Republican Club of the City of Rye,
N.Y., 1957-59; secretary and director, Cutler Land Company, Morris-
town, N.J., since 1951; trustee, Morris County Community Chest, since
1960; chairman, Foreign Trade Committee, Young Men’s Board of Trade
of New York, 1952-55; vestryman, St. Peter's Church, Morristown, since
1962; delegate, annual convention of the Episcopal Diocese of Newark,
since 1962.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining and Metallurgical Engineers; Min-
ing and Metallurgical Society; Shakespeare Club of Morristown (presi-
dent); Morris County Historical Society; Washington Association of
New Jersey; Mining Club of New York; Harvard Club of New York,
Snow Chasers of Morristown; Morristown Field Club; American Yacht
Club, Rye, N.Y., 1954-60; Badminton Club of the City of New York,

1950-5 5-
[ 287 ]

ae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

NOW that [ think about it, the last twenty-five years have gone by
in a terrible hurry. I keep telling myself that in every respect I am
exactly the same person who left Harvard in 1940, but most of my
classmates will know better. They will find that I look very much
the same but will be quick to recognize me as a typical New York
commuter caught up im the affairs of business and suburban society.

Tt must have been in my senior year when I began to have visions
of great things to be done in South America. After graduation I
joined W. R. Grace & Company and spent two fascinating years in
Peru learning to be an ore buyer and exporter of commercial miner-
als. When the war started, I was in Lima, and a year and a half later
was commissioned in the U.S. Naval Reserve. There followed three
vears of active duty, a good part of it aboard the anti-submarine ship
PC-1081 which saw duty i in the invasions of [wo Jima and Okinawa.
On both occasions, I despatched the first ten waves of Marines and
had a fifty-vard line view of the fighting on the beach.

By a stroke of good fortune, the Navy sent me to the Harvard
Business School for a two-week course in surplus disposal. Six
months later, I went back again and after a period of incredibly hard
work tucked away a Master’ s degree. After a month’s cruise in a
chartered schooner with four other classmates, I reported for work
with C. Tennant Sons & Company. Now, seventeen years later, [ am
still with the same company as a senior officer.

Since it has become fashionable to work for only three years at any
one job, some may think this record rather dull. Far from it! In
each of those years, 1 have made at least one major trip to South
America, Europe, or the Far East. I have crawled in and out of
mines in Canada, Peru, and Bolivia; crisscrossed the Andes and the

jungles of Brazil; dined with merchants in London and Tokyo; and
talked with commissars behind the Iron Curtain. My wife Betty has
joined me in some of these excursions and shares my enthusiasm for
the hazards as well as the pleasures.

South America today is a frontier area. There is potential for
enormous growth with less risk than many would have you believe.
We are building a growing business in minerals, metals, chemicals,
steel and copper products, even tea and coffee. One quickly finds
how very much alike people are all over the world, and yet how
important it is to respect their differences, Tennant’s motto has al-
ways been: “World peace through world trade.” Business, not

politics, is the art of compromise. You cannot fight with those © you
deal with every day.

{ 288 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My marriage in 1953 was the most important single thing that has
happened to me since graduation. For the first six years we lived in
Rye, New York, and all of our three children were born there.
When we were not tending diapers or repairing the house, Betty

layed tennis and I sailed in S-Class competition on Long Island
Sound. But the urge to return to our home town in New Jersey
overcame the advantage of the short rail trip to Rye. We took a
Victorian mansion in Morristown and for the past five years have
watched a once semi-rural area become more suburbanized.

I have become active in the Episcopal Church and Betty in Planned
Parenthood. Because nearly one-third of my time is spent in over-
seas travel, I have had to limit activity in civic affairs, but I have lent
my best efforts to stop the relentless march of concrete and asphalt
across our fair countryside. This is a Republican community, and
we have always voted the straight Republican ticket, although we
were ashamed of the GOP performance in 1964.

Our children are in Peck School, a private grammar school at-
tended by five generations of my wife’s family and mine. Betty,
who is a Bryn Mawr graduate, finds an outlet for her intellectual
talents in many social and civic pursuits. For exercise, Betty rides
and I ski and garden. We both bang about at tennis. We have just
built a new house, for which we have been our own architects with
a ready guest room and plenty of baths. Let us know when you
come to Morristown! .

LOUIS DAILY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2523 Maroneal St., Houston, Texas 77025.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 1517 Medical Towers Bldg., Houston, Texas 77025.

[ 289 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I940

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: S.B., 1940; M.D, (Univ. of Texas), 1943;
pup. (Univ. of Minnesota), 1950.

MARRIED: Laverl Reeves, 1958. cHtLp: Evan Ray, May, 1961,

occupanion: Physician, ophthalmologist.

OFFICES HELD: President, Texas Ophthalmological Association, 1963-64, Mayo
Clinic Eye Alumni Association, 1964-65; secretary, Contact Lens Associa-
tion of Ophthalmologists, 1963-64; member, board of directors, Harvard
Club of Houston, 1963-64; associate professor of ophthalmology, Baylor
College of Medicine, University of Texas Postgraduate School of Medi-
cine, Houston, Texas.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology;
American College of Surgeons (fellow); International College of Surgeons
(fellow); Association for Research in Ophthalmology; Pan-American Asso-
ciation of Ophthalmology; American Medical Association; Texas Medical
Association; Texas Ophthalmological Association, Mayo Alumni Associa-
tion; Mayo Clinic Eye Alumni Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Twenty-eight contributions to medical literature, including seven
contributions to medical books.

UNITED STATES Navy Reserve, active duty, 1945-1946.

WILLIAM NORRIS DALE

 

MAILING appress: Embassy of the US. of America, Tel-Aviv, Israel.

prepared at: Utica Country Day School, Utica, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1940; A.M., 1942.

MarRieD: Jane Elizabeth Capen, Oct. 25, 1942. CHILDREN: three sons, aged
eighteen, fifteen and fourteen.

occupation: Deputy Chief of Mission, American Embassy, Tel-Aviv.

SERVED as lieutenant in the Navy from 1942 to 1946. Entered the
Department of State in June of 1946 and served in Copenhagen,
Ottawa, Paris, London and Ankara. Served as Officer in Charge of

[ 290]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

U.K. and Ireland Affairs and deputy director in the Office of British
Commonwealth and North European Affairs in Washington from
1956 to 1958. Attended the National War College during 1959-60
and was counselor for Mutual Security Affairs in Ankara, Turkey,
for the next four years.

It would be a great pleasure to be able to attend the Reunion, but
my chances of returning at that time from Israel are close to nil.

GEORGE WINCHESTER DANA

 

HOME ADDRESS; 4030 S.W. 58th Ave., Portland, Oregon.

OFFICE ADDRESS: University of Oregon Medical School, Portland, Oregon.

PREPARED AT: University High School, Ann Arbor, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.D., 1943.

MarRRIED: Elizabeth Sherrerd Rathbun, June 30, 1951, CHILDREN: Emily Ann,
Sept. 25, 1952; Sarah Matteson, March 5, 1954; Lawrance Winchester,
Sept. 8, 1955; Samuel Rathbun, Sept. 17, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of pediatrics, University of Oregon Medical
School.

OFFICES HELD: President, Portland Academy of Pediatrics, 1955, Portland
Chapter, United World Federalists, 1956, 1957, 1958, Portland Center for
Hearing and Speech, 1961, 1962.

MEMBER OF: Portland Academy of Pediatrics; North Pacific Pediatric So-
ciety; American Academy of Pediatrics; American Medical Association;
New York Academy of Sciences, City Club of Portland; Portland Center
for Hearing and Speech, Portland Zoological Society; Oregon Museum for

Science and Industry.

MEDICAL school was followed by a wartime three years (twenty-
seven months) of training at the University of Michigan Hospital,
Ann Arbor, where I completed an internship and residency in pedi-
atrics. This entitled me to a specialty rating during my two years

[291 ]

_ HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

with the Army. These were enjoyably spent establishing and run-
ning a pediatric unit im the station hospital at Gort Gulick, Canal
Zone. The progression from lieutenant colonel to captain in the
Medical Corps was automatic.

In the summer of 1948, I returned to Boston and spent the next
three years on a fellowship status at the Children’s Medical Center
while pondering what more permanent direction my life might take.
This decision (as have been subsequent ones) was made with the
delightful and sustaining help of Betsy (daughter of L. W. Rathbun,
°23). The decision was in favor of private practice vs. an academic
career. Portland, Oregon, beckoned on both geographical and pro-
fessional grounds. There we arrived in the fall of 1951, and there we
will be returning in the fall of 1965. I have ended up in academics,
after all, having started to work at the medical school on a half-time
basis in less than a vear after starting practice and having been on a
full-time basis since 1955.

A sabbatical year now finds us back in the Boston area as I work
again with Dr. Diamond at Children’s. We are enjoying seeing old
friends and places, and exposing the children to a full year of New
England. It also places us in a strategic position for June and
the 25th!

JACOB BERNARD DANA

 

HOME appress: 49 Dresden Ave., Gardiner, Maine.
OFFICE Appress: Veterans Administration Hospital, Togus, Maine.
PREPARED AT; English High School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1940, M.D. (Boston
Univ.), 1943.
Magpiep: Lenora Ann Quinn, July 2, 1948. cHiLpREN: Susan Dorothy, June 9,

[ 292 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1949; William Joseph, Nov. 26, 1950; Elizabeth Ann, Aug. 9, 1952 (died
Oct. 23, 1952); Mark A. and Michael B. (twins), Nov. 30, 1954; Robert
Quinn, March 9g, 1958; Richard Patrick, Dec. 21, 1960; Janet Mary, Dec. 9,

1963.

occuPATION: Physician; cardiologist at U.S. Veterans Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, 1958-64, second vice-president, Maine
Heart Association; chairman, Gardiner, Maine, Chapter, American Red
Cross, 1954-56; editor, Heart Page, Journal of Maine Medical Association.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
American College of Physicians (fellow); Maine Heart Association; Ki-
wanis International; Augusta (Maine) Country Club.

puBLicaTions: Many articles, including “Clinical Indications for a Low Sodium
Diet,” 1955, “Influence of Heart Disease on Surgical Risk,” 1956, “Influ-
ence of Spinal Anesthesia on Surgical Risk in Heart Disease,” 1957, “Re-
current Thrombosis in Unrecognized Tumors of Lung,” 1960, “Rupture
of Papillary Muscle After Myocardial Infarction,” 1963, all in Journal of
Maine Medical Association.

HAVING survived the impact of war in Europe beginning at the
start of our senior year, I survived my first summer as a Harvard
graduate and as a bellhop earning zo money. When I entered medi-
cal school in September, 1940, I hoped for a great future, one free of
our involvement in war. I soon learned that the latter was not to be
and that I would become one of those dedicated by others to the
cause of freedom. To my surprise I realized that the jeering of Dr.
Conant at our Commencement was not the exercise and the measure-
ment of a mature mind. While in medical school I also learned that
my classmates, even though not Harvard graduates, were as able as
I, or more able. A rude awakening. In October, 1944, I went on
active duty with the Army Medical Corps and spent over two years
traveling in the United States and finally to the Philippine Islands.
Isaw no combat and learned little of the realities of war.

In December, 1946, I started my postgraduate medical training and
in July, 1948, extended my postgraduate efforts by marrying a lovely
Trish girl who, after sixteen years, leaves no doubt in my mind about
my excellent taste and the wisdom of my selection. From June, 1949,
when our first child was born until December, 1963, when our last
arrived, our life has been full of surprises, trials, tribulations and re-
wards related to the constant presence of seven children, all of whom
are different and, at different times, each of whom is impossible. I
await impatiently the opportunity to show off my wife and most of
my children in June, 1965.

My professional development h has been gratifying. In 1951 I was
certified as a specialist in internal medicine and to the present time

[ 293 ]

Semen i kaaieemeibtemtu ie sen iilabcdadmaetiaieiaaannn aa aiaiiniaiaatnieniteaniiees: iesiocnapaianathbenipaniinnieainabaeielanenmmmmian nema eis ae

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

have devoted much of my time to adult cardiology. I have derived
much satisfaction from being able to participate in the progress of
medicine in the past fifteen years, feeling that I have made some small
contribution.

As the vears have passed I have remained an eager believer in
progressive causes and politics though a less ardent debater than I
Was twenty-five years ago. I feel more strongly than ever that the
course of our nation, though not always unwavering, ts a sound and
vital one and that it is heading for an exciting future in which our
children will find a challenge, great excitement and opportunity
limited only by their breadth of vision.

Finally, as the years pass, I become more tired of some aspects of
P.T.A., local education, Little League, Cub Scouts, music lessons and
vet I am still surviving. My golf game becomes worse as that of my
wife and children mmproves. I get a vicarious pleasure from this. I
hope to bask in their reflected glory.

At forty-five I am proud to be a Harvard Man, knowing more
certainly than ever that Harvard does not need to be defended. Its
contributions are many and great. To see at least one and, if possible,
several of my sons matriculate at Harvard is an intense and unending
hope with which I live.

CHARLES EDGAR DANIELS

 

HOME ApprEss: 505 E. Crawford Ave., Connellsville, Pa.

OFFICE appREss: 121 E. Fayette St., Connellsville, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Connellsville High School, Connellsville, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: 8.B., cum laude, 1940; M.B.A., 1942.
UNMARRIED.

OCCUPATION: Owner-manager, scrap iron and metals.

[ 294 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oFFICES HELD: Elected member City Council, four-year term, 1962-65, director
Account and Finance; chairman, Fayette County Board of Adjustment
(Planning & Zoning) since 1961; director, Connellsville Chamber of Com-
merce, since 1957 (president, 1959), Greater Connellsville Community Fund,
since 1956, Inter-Community Industries (president, 1961), Connellsville In-
dustrial Enterprises, Fayette County Development Council; councilor-
director, Pennsylvania State Chamber of Commerce, 1964; lieutenant com-
mander, USNR-R, executive officer of NRNCSORG q-11.

MEMBER OF: Pleasant Valley Country Club.

TWENTY-NINE years ago I journeyed to Cambridge, Massa-
chusetts, to matriculate at Harvard College — the only graduate of
my high school class to enter an Ivy League school and the first ever
to enter directly from our local high school. Today I find myself
residing with my parents at the same address of twenty-five years
ago. . . . and a natural question of my classmates and, more so of
myself, what, if anything, happened during the twenty-five years
since graduation? The “if anything” can best be explained chron-
ologically:

Upon graduation I entered Harvard Graduate School of Business
Administration, receiving my M.B.A. degree in June, 1942, and
entered active duty as an ensign, USNR, in July, 1942. After forty-
seven months of uneventful stateside duty, I was released from active
duty with rank of lieutenant. In the fall of 1946 I joined Paramount
Pictures (Theatres Division) in a management trainee capacity.
Four years later (1950-51) two simultaneous events changed the
course of my life: first, the advent of T’V, and, second, my recall by
the Navy for Korean duty. After seventeen months of duty, pri-
marily in Nebraska (yes, Navy duty in Nebraska), I was again re-
leased from active duty with rank of lieutenant commander, plus an
honorary appointment as Admiral in the Great Navy of the State of
Nebraska. Because of the many basic changes wrought in the theatre
industry by TV, I decided it would be infeasible to resume my career
in that field. After visiting Mexico and California, I returned to my
home in Connellsville for a self-re-evaluation as to my future. Dur-
ing this self-appraisal I took an exam and was accepted as a sales-
trainee for Investor Diversified Services, Inc., and at the same time
became a part-time employee in my father’s business of scrap iron
and metals. During the years 1954-57, the mutual fund industry was
in a period of dynamic growth — and the same years found the scrap
iron business prosperous. Before I had a chance to make a choice
between the two, my father retired in 1957 and I found myself the

[ 295 ]

ne

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

sole owner and manager of a scrap iron and metal yard (Abe I.
Daniels Company) and remain so as of this date.

Although my business can be and is challenging at times, by
applying sound “B” school principles, I have trained an efficient work
force which allows me ample leisure time to pursue the several city,
county and state civic functions listed above under “offices held.”

Since 1940 a quarter of a century has elapsed—-and though [|
find my status unchanged geographically speaking, my _ status
as an individual has been richly rewarded in the happiness, pleasures
good will derived from my services to my community and fel-

and
o
low man. Basically, there is little more that I can ask for as I embark

on mv second quarter-century postgraduate era.

EDWIN SANFORD DANIELS

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 3649 Otterbein Ave., Dayton 6, Ohio.

[296]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HAMILTON DAUGHADAY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 148 Summit Ave., Buffalo, N.Y. 14214.

OFFICE ADDREss: Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory, Inc., Buffalo, N.Y.

prepareD AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; S.M., 1941; PH.D.

(State Univ. of N.Y. at Buffalo), 1945.
MarRigD: Mary Thompson Brown, 1960. cHitp: Ann Thompson, Nov. 22, 1963.

OCCUPATION: Aeronautical engineer.
MEMBER OF: Buffalo Yacht Club; University Club of Buffalo.

IN the fall after graduation I returned to the Graduate School in
order to concentrate in the field of aeronautical engineering. The
following year I moved to Buffalo, New York, where I have worked
ever since in aeronautical engineering and research. With the rapid
scientific advances since the war this field is more challenging and
interesting today than when I took it up in 1940.

Currently I am concerned with a number of matters which pre-
occupied most of my classmates many years ago. Instead of worry-
ing about getting children into colleges we are wondering how soon
our wonderful one-year-old daughter will be ready for nursery
school. During the past year I have been engrossed in writing a
thesis to complete a Ph.D. program in physics which I have been
carrying on part time for several years,

I had a first taste of the pleasures of skiing while still in college by
climbing up to Tuckerman’s Ravine without having any idea of how
to get back down. However, this did not discourage me, Although
the ski hills of western New York are not as high as the mountains of
New Hampshire and Vermont, they are far more accessible and we
get a great deal of pleasure skiing almost every weekend during the

winter.

[297 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

My summer hobbies have also been primarily of an outdoor nature.
With Lake Erie j just a ten-minute drive from home, I have owned a

series of small boats since coming to Buffalo and have become an
ardent sailor.

WILLIAM HAMILTON DAUGHADAY

 

HOME AppRESS: 217 Huntleigh Drive, Kirkwood, Mo.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 600 S. Kingshighway, St, Louis, Mo:
PREPARED AT: North Shore Country Day School, Winnetka, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1940, M.D., Cum
laude, 1943.

marrieD: Hazel Judkins, Jan. 22, 1945. CHILDREN: Elizabeth Colton, Nov. 16,
1945; John Freer, Aug. 1, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Carlos Colton Daughaday, 38 (deceased).
OCCUPATION: Physician.

MEMBER oF: American Society for Clinical Investigation, Central Society for

Clinical Research, American Institute of Nutrition, Endocrine Society,
Association of American Physicians.

pusLicatioxs: Fifty-seven research and clinical papers published in a variety of
bio-medical journals, ten chapters prepared for textbooks and reviews.

AT the end of a research fellowship at the Thorndike Laboratory of
the Boston City Hospital in 1947, I had been in Boston for nine years.
To be sure, this tenure had been interrupted by a tour in the Army
Medical Corps, with a brief but unpalatable exposure to war in Italy.
Restlessness in my middle western blood and the urgings of Bob
Glaser led me to Washington University in St. Louis for additional
clinical training in internal medicine under Barry Wood. In this
medical center, | found the same tradition of excellence which I had
valued so highly in Boston. Moreover, it was very stimulating to be

[ 298 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in St. Louis as the medical school was breaking out of its wartime
hibernation.

A high point in my preparation for a career in academic medicine
was the opportunity to work in the biochemical laboratories of
Nobel Prize winner, Carl Cori. I was prevented from continuing in
my research in this laboratory by the invitation from Barry Wood to
become director of the Metabolism Division in the Department of
Medicine in 1950. At the present time, I continue in this capacity
with the rank of professor of medicine.

These past fifteen years have been ones of great excitement and
unprecedented development in academic medicine as the result of
expanding financial support for research and postgraduate medical
education from the National Institutes of Health. There have been
many gratifications in guiding the development of physical facilities
for research and training in my division. More importantly, the new
facilities have made possible clinical research of increasing sophistica-
tion and significance. This has brought to my division a series of
gifted individuals seeking training in endocrinology and metabolism.

In recent years, my investigative attention has been largely cen-
tered on the pituitary gland. This fragment of tissue which weighs
about 300 mg has a complexity of function that remains a continuing
challenge. New methods of measurement have made quantitative
description of hormone activity in man feasible. I] have been mostly
concerned with the pituitary hormone which controls growth and
our clinical research wards have a circus sideshow appearance with
the short and the tall.

For the past five years I have been editor of the Journal of Labora-
tory and Clinical Medicine. Also a considerable amount of time and
many air miles are devoted to serving the National Institutes of
Health on two advisory committees.

This way of life has its share of anxieties and frustrations in ad-
dition to the general ones of man in the nuclear age. It has swallowed
up any hours which might have been devoted to hobbies, social ac-
tivities and community affairs because of the demands in attempting
to play the triple role of teacher, doctor and scientist. It is not a
cloistered life but one of intense competition and its share of politics.

Fortunately, my wife Hazel has understanding and appreciation
of the goals of an academic career. This comes from a Maine-
nurtured independence of spirit and an awareness of the best in medi-
cine derived from the Peter Bent Brigham School of Nursing. Our
daughter Betsy is a sophomore at the University of Rochester and is

[ 299 ]

1 iilnhandnnatepa aie aaeaapeaeaneapaeanamacnaeapinaaiaaeieaimnepnemanamannsnimnmmniimetinanatae iii aaa,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

more inclined toward the flute than the stethoscope. Our son John,
at seventh grade, is more interested in next summer’s trout fishing
than in more distant thoughts about the future.

Our vacations are spent out-of-doors. Summer has usually found
us packing into some mountain lake in the high Rockies or heading a
canoe down a chain of Canadian Lakes. For shorter trips, we find a
canoe trip down an Ozark stream an experience of surprising beauty.

In politics, a long record of voting for the Democratic party has
made my claim to be an independent voter invalid. I was strongly
behind our classmate in the presidency and was overwhelmed by the
tragedy of Dallas.

+ CHARLES pb AUTREMONT

 

BorN: April 28, 1919, Duluth, Minn. parents: Hubert Hart d’Autremont,
Helen Congdon,
PREPARED AT: Santa Barbara School, Carpinteria, Calif.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940.
MARRIED: Ann Webster. CHILDREN: Two.
prep: Killed in action, Jan. 24, 1944, near Anzio, Italy.

AFTER graduation d’Autremont spent two years at the Law School
before entering naval service as an ensign. He was later promoted
to lieutenant (j.g.) and in May, 1943, was assigned to a communica-
tions post at Oran, Algiers. Transferred to destroyer duty in the
Mediterranean, he was communications officer aboard the USS
Plunkett when it was bombed during the assault at Anzio, Italy, and

was presumed to have been killed at that time. He was survived by
his wife and children.

[ 300 ]

aii ‘

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD MOTT DAVIS

E
bo

 

HOME ADpREsS: 7704 Robalo Rd., Austin, Texas 78757.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Anthropology, University of Texas, Austin, Texas
78712.

PREPARED AT: Winter Park High School, Winter Park, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., Magna cum laude, 1940; A.M., 19423
PH.D., 1954.

MARRIED: Bertha Ogden, Feb. 4, 1943. CHILDREN: Jonathan Ogden, April 15,
1948; Hugh Hatfield, Oct. 18, 1951.

occupation: Education and research, anthropology (archeology); director,
research in anthropology; executive secretary, Department of Anthropol-
ogy; assistant director, Radiocarbon Dating Laboratory; lecturer in an-
thropology, all at University of Texas; teaching and research in archeology.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Society for American Archeology, 1964-68; president,

* Texas Archeological Society, 1961; editor, Texas Archeology, since 1957.

MEMBER OF: Society for American Archeology; American Anthropological
Association; American Association for the Advancement of Science; Amer-
ican Science Film Association; various state archeological societies.

PuBLICATIONS: Monograph: “The Archeology of the Lime Creek Site in South-
western Nebraska,” University of Nebraska State Museum, Lincoln, 1962;
educational films: “Great Plains Trilogy, Part I]: Nomad and Indian,”
thirteen films made with Marvin F, Kivett, University of Nebraska, 1954;
“Spadework for History,” six films on archeology, University of Texas,

1964.
A BACK injury acquired in 39 kept me out of the military in World
War II. Stayed at Harvard until ’42, completing residence require-
ments for Ph.D. in anthropology. Spent remainder of the war han-
dling maps for the Air Transport Command in Washington, and
later managed family fruit orchards in Massachusetts on father’s
death. Not finding it possible to do both fruit growing and an-
thropology, in 1948 I abandoned the former — not easy, because it
meant abandoning the old homestead — and took a job in anthro-

[ 301 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

pelogy at the University of Nebraska, where I stayed until 1956
teaching, doing research, and being curator in the museum. Com-
pleted the Harvard Ph.D. by writing thesis at night, the only time
when concentration was possible, An exhausting business, but only
too familiar to many of us. Orthopedists finally decided my back
trouble was a disc, and repaired it; new man after ten years, but a
prime part of life had been dampened.

Nebraska a good place for an archeologist, and congenial for a
farm bov; but I moved on to the University of Texas in ’56. Pleased
to find Texas remarkably varied and stimulating, Austin a fine city
in which to live and raise two sons, University of Texas on the go
intellectually. My wife works for the U.S. Geological Survey here,
and | have spent most of my time with research, educational films,
and administrative work, the latter principally concerned with get-
ting a radiocarbon dating laboratory into operation. This last has
turned out to involve skill in translation between the language of
nuclear chemists and the language of archeologists. Each field insists
on treating concepts of the other as settled, open-and-shut, black-
and-white matters, whereas its own are seen as flexible, relative,
modifiable in the light of new evidence. I suspect most of us tend to
see the world in these two ways. In recent months I have also re-
turned to teaching, the best way to stay on one’s toes.

A year after Jack Kennedy’s ‘death, my friends and I note that we

have not really recovered from the personal shock, and therefore
possibly never will, this despite never having known him face to
face. Meanwhile, a home town central Texas boy has taken over as
President; it is hard to believe that there can be two such contrasting
and extraordinary personalities in the White House in succession.
I'm not overly optimistic about the next one hundred years, but not
pessimistic either, having lost the youthful assurance of ability to
predict, especially prediction of dire things. Therefore, I trust the
world may continue to stumble along erratically toward less suffer-
ing, less frustration, and more fulfillment of human potentialities.

{ 302 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN FRANCIS DAVIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 107 Kennedy Rd., Windsor, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hartford Courant, Hartford, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarRiED: Marilyn G. Lattin, June 23, 1950. CHILDREN: Susan MacDonald, April
7, 1951; John Lattin, Sept, 12, 1953; Laura May, May 13, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Journalism: head of copy desk, Hartford Courant, public relations
consultant, Loomis and Chaffee schools.

PUBLICATIONS: Editor, Loomis Alummi Bulletin, occasional magazine articles.

I HAVE been in the newspaper business for most of the last twenty-
five years and expect to continue in it for the next twenty-five. A
wife, three children and a mortgage plus extracurricular work at the
Loomis and Chaffee schools keep me busy, although I manage to
squeeze out a few hours for golf and flying. I have few social, politi-
cal or religious convictions but I hope for the best. My ambition is
to become the oldest living member of the Class, but I understand
the competition is too good.

[ 303 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

PAUL DANIFL DAVIS

|

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 370, Accra, Ghana.

prepared aT: DeWitt Clinton High School, Bronx, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; LL.B. (New York Univ.), 1955.

marriep: Doris Marie Dolfer, Sept. 28, 1957. cHitp: Kerry Dee, Oct. 22, 1964.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Washington Carver Davis, Grad. Sch. of Arts and
Sciences, 1939-42.

occupation: Lawyer.

ALTHOUGH I had always planned visiting Africa, the idea of
spending an extended period of time there began to materialize dur-
ing my first year in college at Lincoln in Pennsylvania. There I met
the now President of Ghana and several other African leaders. This
expanding group of acquaintances from the African continent con-
tinued during vacations from Harvard and afterwards.

As with everyone's activities, law school was interrupted by war
service and completed at a later date. Legal practice and further
legal studies kept me based in Paris for two years; however, there
were treks to most parts of the world. This was a formative period
for the African Independence Movement which was to reach its new
phase with Ghana’s independence in 1957. It was during my stay in
Europe that many of the young leaders from Africa were in training
there.

In 1957, I took up residence in Ghana and represented several
American and continental firms throughout Africa. Since my arrival
in Africa, | have been occupied with legal matters and served from
time to time as economic and industrial consultant to numerous

governments in Africa. Every few months there has been another
invitation to attend the ceremonies ushering in a newly independent
African nation. My wife, whose field is fine arts, and 1 have had a

[ 304 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

continuous collector’s safari around the African continent acquiring
both contemporary and traditional art pieces. In between varied ac-
tivities, we took time out for an extended trip around the world in
1961.

I have watched closely the developments on the African continent
from college days and have lived here during most of the crucial
past decade. As a result, I have a keen desire to be present in Africa
when the final independence of the continent is completed.

RICHARD LEECH DAVISSON, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 206 Grove St., Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: White, Weld & Co., 125 High St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., Cu laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Marietta Howe, June 15, 1940. CHILDREN: Henry Saltonstall Howe,
May 12, 1941; Helen, June 9, 1942 (7. George C. Whiteley, 3d, June 15,
1963); Katharine, March 1, 1945 (m. James F, Chace, 2d); Richard Porter,
March 21, 1949; James Porter, July 2, 1951. Granpcuitp: Marietta Chace,
Jan. 5, 1963. ,

HARVARD BROTHER: William Porter Davisson, 746.

OCCUPATION: Oil analyst, White, Weld & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Clerk, Children’s Mission to Children, Boston (part of Children’s
Hospital); former director, Redwater Utilities (Canada), Atlas Explora-
tion, Slick Oil Company; currently, director, Kentucky Drilling & Explo-
ration Company; president and director, Milton Oil Corporation,

MEMBER OF: Somerset Club; Dedham Country & Polo Club.

I WORKED for the Greyhound Corporation from 1940 to 1943 in
almost all capacities (menial) except driving, in New York and
Detroit. During 1943-44, I was in the sales department of Budd
Manufacturing in Detroit. From 1944 to 1950, I worked for the

[ 305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

State Street Research & Management Company. For the last half of
this period, the State Street was adviser to its president in his
capacity as treasurer of Harvard,

Since 1950 I have been an analyst of the oil industry and oil
securities for White, Weld & Company, investment bankers. I
believe that the most important development in the oil industry with
which I have been intimately and directly concerned has been the re-
opening of Ohio as an active area. Production of oil in Ohio has
quadrupled i in the last twelve months, and this has resulted in a spill-
over of interest and activity over the whole Appalachian Basin.

Apart from oil activity, I play bridge and tennis with declining
efficiency. My golf had no plateau from which to decline. I sup-
pose I trav el more than most, with the percentage of the travel

devoted to pleasure showing a satisfactory increase over the per-
centage devoted to business.

CHARLES DEAN DAVOL, JR.

 

HOME AppRESS: 315 Ellington Ave., Garden City, N.Y. (temporary).

OFFICE appress: Staff, COMSTSLANT, Brooklyn, N.Y. 11250 (temporary).
PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937, 1938-1941. DEGREE: A.B., 1940(41).

_ Marrigp: Margaret Hall, Feb. 6, 1947. cnito: Benjamin Dean, Jan. 2, 1960.
occupation: Captain, US. Navy.

member oF: Harvard Club of Boston; New York Yacht Club.

UPON graduation with a Naval Reserve commission as ensign, I was
ordered to active duty for what I believe was a one- or two-year
period. This May, having completed my military obligations, I shall

retire in time to attend the Reunion (my first) and settle into a new
vocation.

[ 306 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Among other Navy duties, I have served in and commanded
submarines and surface ships, had shore duty in Washington and
Bangkok, traveled east to the Mediterranean and west to the Indian
Ocean, have attended and taught at the Naval Postgraduate School
and am now concluding my career with the Military Sea Transpor-
tation Service in New York. Life in the Navy is seldom easy but
twenty-four-hour stretches of duty on the bridge of a ship at sea
remove one far from the strains and dangers of commuting.

This is not the place to describe in any detail my twenty-four
years in the Navy and such a description might restrain me from
later recitals of my sea stories — certain death for an old sailor. For
those ready to listen, I shall be ready to reminisce or fabricate.

Class or college contacts have been seldom through the years but
I did contribute to the cause with the organization of the Harvard
Club of Bangkok. The club did not survive infancy but it was
interesting to find Harvard men from seven countries in the cities
and in the jungles of Thailand.

Margaret was discovered in Perth when I visited Australia during
the war. Although she ultimately became a United States citizen,
she has retained the better qualities of the Australian —I-am still
spoiled by the kidneys served for Sunday breakfast. We waited
many years for our only child but he shows early signs of over-
taking me in both size and intelligence.

Having moved every two years since our marriage, Margaret and
[are ready, although perhaps not qualified, to settle into a permanent
nest. As of this writing, the nesting area is unchosen but probably
will be east of the Hudson. .

[ 307 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

RICHARD IRVING DAWES

procs Te eg

oy ~ a
oo ea ;
4 cae 3 wn 4

® Ry RS 4
F / wa 8
e

: ers.
: v
é a
‘ :
L ¥ ey
o OMe
&
a

   

   

HOME AppREss: 8900 Watlington Rd., Richmond, Va. 23229.
OFFICE appRESS: Reynolds Metals Co., Reynolds Metals Bldg., 6601 Broad Street
Rd., Richmond, Va. 23218.

prepareD aT: John Marshall High School, Richmond, Va.; Montclair High
School, Montclair, N.J.

YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.B.A., 1942.

MarRiED: Elisabeth Hewitt Coffin, April 2, 1949. cHmpREN: Alan Stuart, Oct. ro,
1954, Carol Winfield, March 5, 1957; Beverly Gail, Oct. 30, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Assistant secretary, Reynolds Metals Company, aluminum manu-
facture.

OFFICES HELD: Regional vice-president, Middle Atlantic Region, since Septem-
ber, 1961, chairman, Newsletter Committee, since July, 1963, Associated
Harvard Clubs; past president, Harvard Club of Virginia, 1959-61, March
of Dimes chairman, 1954, and chairman, 1954-55, Richmond-Henrico Chap-
ter, National Foundation for Infantile Paralysis; treasurer, 1950, vice-presi-
dent, 1952-55, director, Richmond Junior Chamber of Commerce; assistant
treasurer, Tuckahoe Presbyterian Church, since 1962; various positions in
United Givers Fund drives (annually).

MEMBER OF: American Society of Corporate Secretaries, Country Club of Vir-
ginia; Richmond Gentry (secretary and director, 1961-64); Harvard Club

of Virginia,

MY gainful pursuits in this twenty-five years can be reduced to a
nutshell — two years at Harvard Business School, four years in the
Navy, and now in my nineteenth year with Reynolds Metals Com-
pany. The first segment enabled me to savor two more years of
Boston life, cheer the Crimson athletic teams, and brought me an
M.B.A, and an ensign’s commission in Navy Ordnance. This I was
able to accomplish because the wheels of fortune spun me the next
to last draft number. The Navy segment was not the type that you
brag about to grandchildren. It consisted of two months at Cornell
and forty-five months in Washington, D.C. No sea duty and no

[ 308 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

overseas duty was involved as I was concerned most of the war with
ordnance and related materials and the men who used them. I was
attached to Admiral King’s flagship briefly while it was tied up at
the Washington Navy Yard, but otherwise from time to time I was
in the manufacturing and inspection divisions of the Naval Gun
Factory, ending up as department head, and was executive officer of
enlisted men’s schools for optical, typewriter, and watch repair.
Somehow I remember more clearly my extra duties, such as coach
of the Waves’ softball and basketball teams, writer of the thank you
letters for the admiral for each Reserve officer leaving service (in-
cluding a flowery one for myself), and my own achievements as a
relatively high-scoring forward on a Navy basketball team which
won the District of Columbia championship.

The summer interlude in 1946 between the Navy and start of a
business life was spent happily in the Allegheny mountains as a
counselor once again at Camp Virginia, a private boys’ camp which
I still visit annually and to which son Alan now goes.

Came the fall of 1946 and I walked into the offices of Reynolds
Metals Company in Richmond, a company which was then still a
neophyte in the aluminum business, although its sales had recently
topped the $100 million mark. The company’s sales are now ap-
proaching $600 million and we have plants all over the world. The
growth of Reynolds Metals in a little over twenty years has been
fantastic, and I have been part of it. Starting in the inventory con-
trol department, I was able to visit most of our manufacturing plants
and thus became familiar with the manufacturing processes. A later
assignment in the production control department had me control-
ling the schedules of four of our plants. In 1957 I was elected
assistant secretary of the company and since have seen at first hand
the actions which have expanded Reynolds into a global operation.
In addition to my office with the parent company, I am secretary or
assistant secretary of some fifty subsidiaries and am also on the board
of directors of some.

My family has been a great source of comfort and joy over the
past few years. Libby has been quite active in women’s club affairs,
as a Sunday School teacher and in PTA projects, and we enjoy
thoroughly our membership in dinner dance and dinner bridge
clubs. Our children are different in many ways. Alan shares his
Dad’s interest in competitive and spectator sports, is doing very
well at school and in other pursuits. Carol is a petite, blue-eyed
blonde in contrast to her brown-eyed, brown-haired brother, and

[ 309 ]

cowbell abl Md a

oo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

is a real quiet little princess liked by everyone and always possessing
more knowledge than anyone (including her parents) expects be-
cause of her quiet nature. The youngest, Beverly, is the personality
kid of the family with her big, brown eyes and her facial and vocal
expressions.

Since graduation I have derived much satisfaction out of partici-
pation in Harvard Alumni activities, first in Washington, since as a
member of the Harvard Club of Virginia, serving in every capacity
from bottom to top therein, and lately in activities of the Associated
Harvard Clubs. I have derived much less satisfaction out of our
national politics, having become a conservative Virginian. I'm still

hopeful the next twenty-five years will be to my liking in this
regard.

GORDON MUNROE DAY

   

HOME apprEss: 256 Hollywood Ave., Douglaston 63, N.Y.

oFFice appress: Gordon M. Day, Inc., 72 W. 45th St., New York 36, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: 5.B., 19q0.

MaraieD: Carol Kurtz, Feb. 6, 1948. cyiLpren: Katharine Langdon, June 13;
- 1949; Nicholas Munroe, Oct. 1, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederic Lansing Day, Jr., B.ARCH., ’40, M.ARCH., 41.

occupation: President, Gordon M. Day, Inc., a firm writing and producing
television-radio commercials and business films,

orrices HELD: Director, 30th Street Association of New York City, 1955-58:
Douglaston Club, since i960.

MEMBER OF: International Radio & Television Society; Douglaston Club; Har-
vard Club of New York.

SINCE the years at Harvard I have been an advertising account
executive, a writer-producer of television and radio commercials

[ 310]

rr

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and business films, and a political publicity writer. Also a reluctant
landlord of a Manhattan brownstone apartment house and a member
of the United States Navy.

The political job came first. During the summer and fall of 1940
I wrote news releases for the Massachusetts Republican State Com-
mittee. As collateral duty I served time on the Republican sound
truck and became adept at dodging cauliflower and rutabaga in
such Democratic strongholds as Roxbury and Revere.

After the political campaign I joined a small Boston advertising
agency which gave me the heady title of management account
supervisor. In this capacity I drummed up new accounts, wrote
newspaper and magazine ads and brought in the coffee for the staff
each morning.

In 1942 I began a three-year hitch in the small boat Navy which
included a tour of duty as commanding officer of the Submarine
Chaser 1020. In 1945 I was shipped to Washington and assigned to
the Bureau of Naval Personnel Training Manual Division, known to
its inhabitants as Sleepy Hollow, where I wrote the new Gunners
Mate Third Class Training Manual.

Out of the Navy the following year I headed for New York in
hopes of landing a job with one of the large advertising agencies. I
found that the music courses I’d taken at Harvard with Professors
Hil and Piston were a business asset. The moguls of soap and
cigarettes had discovered the singing commercial, and thanks to my
background in music and advertising copy I was able to obtain a
good number of writing assignments.

Some two years later I set up my own firm specializing in the
preparation and production of radio commercials, musical and
otherwise. (In due course the firm expanded into television film
commercials and business films, and this has been my principal
occupation ever since.)

About this time I acquired a sideline business. I had become
married and needed a larger apartment. I was also looking for new
quarters for my business. To solve both problems I became owner,
with the essential cooperation of the Bowery Savings Bank, of a
four-story Manhattan brownstone in the 30’s, inheriting seven ten-
ants and a furnace with a cranky disposition. .My wife and I took
Possession of the ground floor garden apartment and I established
my business in an adjacent area.

More recently, when we moved to the suburbs, I sold the brown-
stone and re-located the TV-radio business in mid-Manhattan.

[311]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Carol and I maintain two teen-age children, a cat, and one-eighth
of an acre of trees and weeds in Douglaston, a small waterfront
community on the North Shore of Long Island. Here we have

found year-round happy and gracious living, and I am optimistic
as to whatever the future may bring.

GERALD EDWARD DEAKIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 20 Marlboro Rd., Manhasset, Long Island, N.Y. 11030.

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Society of Composers, Authors & Publishers, 575
Madison Ave. New York, N.Y, 10022.

PREPARED aT: Hotchkiss School, Lakeville, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940. .

marriep: Doris Elmendorf, Feb. 5, 1943. cuip: Gerald Edward, Jr., April 24
1946.

OCCUPATION: Music business; manager, Symphonic Division, ASCAP, specifi-
cally licensing symphony orchestras when performing in the U.S., Terrt-

tories and Possessions; also includes foreign orchestras on tour in said
areas.

orFices HELD: L. E. Behymer Artist Bureau, Los Angeles, Calif., 1940-42; Radio
Advertising Department, A-T. & T., New York City, 1945-46, Columbia
Artists Management, Inc. New York City (personal manager of the late
James Melton), 1947-53; ASCAP, since 1953.

MEMBER OF: American Symphony Orchestra League.

ABOUT a week after graduation in June, roqo (still don’t know
_ how I did it), I drove out to Los Angeles and the L. E. Behymer
Artist Management Bureau. First attraction ’'m thrown in with was
the late Colonel De Basil’s Ballet Russe De Monte Carlo. How this
fits in with a Harvard major in history, government, and economics,
I still can’t figure out, but I mention this in passing because the
dance comes into the picture very heavily at a future date. Between

[312]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

June, 1940, and my induction into the U.S. Navy in April of 1942,

I did a lot of little theatre work in the Los Angeles area. During the

course of one show, I was supposed to murder a cute little redhead.

Result: three years later in 1943 (I think that’s the date!) we got

married. The Navy was very kind; they gave me three days for

wedding and honeymoon, then shipped me off and I never saw my
wife again until 1945. That’s the reason our son wasn’t born until

1946. Period.

The late Vice-admiral Alan G. Kirk, USN, suffered my presence
on his staff from 1943 to 1945. Little did he know the Navy had
never bothered to indoctrinate me and I still don’t know which end
of a ship is up. (I found out much later after World War II that
that depends on where the torpedo struck.) However, I do speak
French fluently and that’s all the Navy cared about at that time.

October, 1945, saw my wife and me motoring back to New York
from California, ostensibly to co-produce a Broadway play. To this
date, the play has never been produced, which is just as well. The
year 1946 was spent with the radio advertising department of the
A.T. & T., and Monday nights would find me in old studio 5-B at
NBC for the “Telephone Hour,” which Donald Voorhees always
insisted on conducting with a number two black pencil (until tele-

vision).

From 1947 until May, 1953, I spent on the road, in the air, as
personal manager of the late James Melton. - This kind of life is any-
thing but conducive to much home life. As a result, I would say
about three months all told in each year were spent at home. My
wife, Doris, began assisting a local dance teacher. J] never knew
until 1947 that my wife could dance, had had ballet training, was a
graduate of the Detroit Conservatory in this line, had had extensive
tap, modern jazz, and production work in New York during my
Harvard years. She, on the other hand, never knew I couldn’t dance
(except what Arthur Murray had taught me) and really had con-
tempt for the field after my bouts with old Colonel De Basil! Now,
I assure you, I have nothing but the greatest admiration for the
young men and women who finally make the grade. The hard
work and preparation, starting as a child of five, makes an athlete’s
training look like a day in a kindergarten. So, during my times at
home, I found myself making musical arrangements for all types of

dancing classes, which I am still doing to date as the Doris E. Deakin
School of Dancing opened its studio doors this past fall. Our son

[ 313 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

is the only teenager Pm acquainted with who can dance anything
froma Viennese Waltz (with Adagio lifts) to the latest fad!

Since Mav, 1953, I have been in a most interesting job, even
though the pay is lousy. Besides the crass business aspect of collect-
ing money from some 400 United States orchestras, the fascination
lies in observing over some eleven years or so the change in musical
tastes nation-wide as it applies to symphonic music. Even inter-
nationally-renowned conductors dare with innovations. Let’s face
ic — colleges, universities and even high schools have done and are
doing a great job in expanding the tastes of the concert-going public.
It is an accepted fact now that in the United States the contemporary

composer has a much better chance to be heard in a live concert than
in Europe.

FREDERIC STUART DEAN, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 7521 McConnell Ave., Los Angeles 45, Calif.

oFFice appress: Hughes Aircraft Co., Culver City, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Berkshire School, Sheffield, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, 1945-1945. DEGREE: A.B. 1940(46).

Marriep: Ida May Hussander, Aug. 2, 1943 (died December, 1957); Yvonne
Simpkins, 1960. CHILDREN: Barbara Edwards, Nov. 26, 1946; Frederi¢ Stuart,
34, April 12, 1948; Ann Bergen, Dec. 31, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Senior associate engineer— writing engineering reports, etc., in
the field of military aviation.

WENT on active duty in US. Navy in October, 1940, as ensign,
USNR on USS Hulbert, a converted World War I four-stack de-
stroyer in San Diego, California, Spent World War II in Pacific,

emerging as lieutenant commander, commanding officer, USS LM 82.
Went back to Harvard for last semester of 1946 to finish un-

[314]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

finished business and get belated A.B. Tricd various agricultural
enterprises in San Diego County until Korean War broke out and
then went back into U.S. Navy. Emerged as officer in charge, US.
Navy Training Publications Center, Washington, D.C., commander,
USNR in 1954. Worked for RCA Service Company, Alexandria,
Virginia, as a technical writer for two and a half years.

Worked for Hughes Aircraft Company, Culver City, California,
as an engineering writer from 1957 till present and expect to con-
tinue indefinitely. Am still an active participant in USN Ready
Reserve.

EMILE FRANK ve ANTONIO

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 1567, Grand Central Station, New York, N.Y.
10017. . 7

PREPARED AT: Wyoming Seminary, Kingston, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREE: A.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1946.

MarrieD: Ruth Baumann (divorced 1947); Adrienne Rudkin Vanderbilt (di-
vorced 1949); Lois Long (divorced 1957); Marilynn Ambrose (separated).
CHILDREN: Emile, April 7, 1940; Adrienne Vanderbilt, Feb. 18, 1949.

occupaTION: President, Point Film, Inc.

PuBLicaTIoNs: “Point of Order” — copyright book and record.

CO-PRODUCED and directed “Point of Order,” feature document
based on Army-McCarthy hearings. To edit, write and direct film
for BBC and in Hollywood next.

[315 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

VINTON ADAMS DEARING, II

 

HOME ADDRESS: 10542 Garwood P]., Los Angeles, Calif. gooz4.

OFFICE apprEss: Dept. of English, University of California, Los Angeles, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B. Magna cum laude, 1940; A.M., 1942;
PH.D, 1949.

MarrigD: Marion Elizabeth Miser, Dec. 3, 1946. cHitprEN: Henry Hinckley, 3d,
Feb. 10, 1948; Mary Zelia, Feb. 15, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Hinckley Dearing, Jr., '43.

occuPaTION: Professor of English.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Eta of California, Phi Beta Kappa.

MEMBER oF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; Bibli-
ographical Society; Modern Language Association; Society for General
Systems Research; Society of Biblical Literature and Exegesis; Association
for Machine Translation.

PUBLICATION: Textual editor, The Works of Jobn Dryden (California edition) ;
A Manual of Textual Analysis, An Introduction to Computer Program-
ming for Literary Students, editor, Augustan Reprint Society.

| 316 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ VICTOR ve AZEVEDO

 

BORN: Jan. 19, 1918, Medford, Mass, PAreNtTs: Renato Almeida de Azevedo,

Pauline Merrill.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937, 1938-1940.
MARRIED: Kathryn Ignatius (died Nov. 25, 1950).
pieD: Nov. 25, 1950, Princeton, N.J.

VICTOR pve AZEVEDO never replied to any of our questionnaires.
War Office Records record that he was a private at the Aviation
Cadet Replacement Center at Maxwell Field, Albama, and in 1944
was a lieutenant (j.g.) in the Merchant Marine, He was survived by

his parents.

“MAURICE SCHULTZ DECKER, JR.

 

HOME ApbRESS: 1976 Coventry Rd., Upper Arlington, Columbus 12, Ohio.
OFFICE ADpREss: Janitrol Acro Division, Midland Ross Corp. 4200 Surface Rd.,

Columbus 4, Ohio.
[317 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

PREPARED aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938.

mcaretep: Hilda-Mae Merydith, April 12, 1941, CHILDREN: Triena Merydith,
Oct. 12, 1945; Thomas Ladd, Nov. 14, 1947; Robert James, June 5, 1954.

occupation: Chief engineer, Janitrol Aero Division, Midland Ross Corpora-
tion, designers and manufacturers of aircraft and missile equipment espe-
cially related to heating and environmental control.

oFFICES HELD: Adviser, Explorer Scouts, 1961-63.

MEMBER OF; Aerospace Division, Society of Automotive Engineers (a nine
committee member); American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics,
Explorer Scouts (committee man); Ohio Academy of Science; Upper
Arlington Baseball & Football Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Several patents on various aircraft combustion _ arrangements,
pneumatic couplings and pneumatic devices.

WE have lived in Upper Arlington, Ohio, a suburb of Columbus,
for the past twelve years and managed to keep active between bowl-
ing, golf, managing baseball teams, Cub Scouts, Explorer Scouts,
charitable groups and Ohio State football.

Our eighteen-year-old daughter is a sophomore at Ohio Uni-
versity, Athens, Ohio, working for a degree in medical illustration.
At home we have a sixteen-year-old son, a senior in high school and
a ten-year-old boy in fifth grade. Both are avid sports participants.

My position at “Midland Ross takes me often to the east and west
coast, Texas and also a visit to the Harvard Medical School.

Prior to moving to Upper Arlington we lived in Blue Ridge
Summit, Pennsylvania, a summer resort town, As I was a private
pilot before the war I became employed in the Flight Test Division
of Fairchild Aircraft in nearby Hagerstown, Maryland, from the
start of the war until 1951.

My wife and I generally cancel each other’s vote at election time
and the family is actively engaged in the First Community Church.

[318]

L—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STUART STEVENS DeFOREST

  

HOME ADDRESS: 44 Pleasant St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 33 Farnsworth St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Patricia Stearns Cox, July 13, 1941. CHILDREN: Stuart Stevens, Jr., Feb.

6, 1943; Lilias Stearns, Dec. 8, 1944.
CCCUPATION: Assistant treasurer, Stimpson, Inc., Boston, Mass.

MEMBER OF: A.F. & A.M.
THE “Twenty-five Years” since graduation have been good to us.
I am assistant treasurer of Stimpson, Inc., wholesale paper merchants,
established in Boston. I shared in the incorporating of this firm in
1940. |
After Pearl Harbor I joined the Naval Reserve and was privileged
to serve our country on active duty during World War II and the
Korean War. Presently, I am a captain (SC), U.S. Naval Reserve.
Our children, Stuart, Jr., and Lilias Stearns, were born during
the war. Stuart graduates from the University of Virginia this
year and Lilias is a sophomore at George Washington University.
Pat and I look forward to pleasant years ahead and want our next
generation to have the best possible in life.

[ 319 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

WILLIAM HETHERINGTON DeELONG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 421 Main St., Hingham, Mass.

OFFICE Appress: Fidelity Mutual Life Insurance Co., Wellesley Office Park,
Wellesley Hills, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

Marriep: Caruth Niles, July 23, 1949. ceitpren: David William, Sept. 21, 1951;
Elizabeth Niles, June 26, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Clark De Long, ’36.

OCCUPATION: Insurance broker.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Hingham Taxpayers Association, fund chairman,
Hingham Chapter, American Red Cross, 1954.

MEMBER OF: Boston Life Underwriters Association; Hingham Republican
Town Committee, Hingham Yacht Club; Harvard Club of Hingham;
Sandy Beach Association, Cohasset, Mass.; Society of Colonial Wars in
the Commonwealth of Massachusetts.

ONE of my recollections of my father’s Harvard Twenty-fifth
Reunion in 1928 was “how old all those men seemed.” From this
vantage point, I am firmly convinced that I was all wrong!

After graduation, I spent an interesting two years as a debit agent
for the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company in Boston’s
Dorchester district. October, 1942, found me in the Army at Camp
Breckinridge, Kentucky. Then I joined the 98th Infantry Division
as a private and stayed with the Division for the next three and one-
half years obtaining the rank of first lieutenant, MAC. The 98th
Infantry Division had the dubious distinction of being the only U.S.
Infantry Division that did not see combat in World War II. How-
ever, some of our assignments were interesting, if not dangerous.

My last duty assignment was cabaret inspector in Osaka, Japan!
In October, 1946, I went to work for Gum Products, Inc., a candy
and bubble gum manufacturer in East Boston. I spent eight years

[ 320 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with this firm, eventually becoming the secretary of the corporation
and a director of several subsidiaries. This was rewarding work
from the standpoint of experience. However, it was obvious that the
candy industry would never have the glorious days it enjoyed before
World War II. Consequently, in March of 1955, I re-entered the
life insurance business, becoming associated with the Fidelity Mutual
Life Insurance Company in their Boston General Agency.

Marriage in 1949 was, of course, the greatest and our two chil-
dren have been the source of great delight to both of us. Hingham
is a wonderful place to live. Its location by the water solves the
summer vacation problem and our children are fast becoming expert
sailors and swimmers.

My wife, thanks to Bob Pearmain, is a very successful real estate
broker with Hunneman & Company of Boston. Not only is the
income attractive, but the pleasure and enjoyment we get from
meeting all sorts of wonderful new people is very rewarding.

Our outside activities seem to run in spurts. Of course, there is
sailing in the summertime, Harvard football in the fall and painting
and scraping bottoms of boats in late winter and spring. Every two
years, of course, politics has often been our main concern. On the
whole, I would say that our Republican batting average over the
last fifteen years, at least locally, has not been too bad.

EDWARD WILLIAM DEMPSEY

 

HOME ApprEss: R.D. 3, Carrollton Road, Annapolis, Md. 21403.

OFFICE ADDRESS: C. W. Stuart Co., Newark, N.Y.; 711 14th St., Sheraton Bidg.,
Washington, D.C.; Court Square Bldg., Baltimore 2, Md.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; LL.B. (Fordham Univ.), 1947.

[ 321 |

—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

marriED: Edna Louise Harrison, June 17, 1942. CHILDREN: Marilyn Louise, May
18, 1946; William Harrison, March 1, 1951; Edward Charles, May 2, 1955;
Patricia Elizabeth, June 27, 1957; Catherine Lisle, Feb. 7, 1962.

oocupation: Eastern regional sales manager, vice-president, field legal counsel,
member of board, C. W. Stuart Company, distributors and growers of
nursery products and landscaping materials.

OFFICES HELD: Commanding officer, Transportation Corps Medium Port, USAR,
Albany, N.Y. 1948-52, commanding officer, Transportation Corps Logis-
tical Unit, USAR, Washington, D.C., 1953-55; retired officer, U.S. Army

Reserve Transportation Corps, 1942-62; officer, executive board, Annapolis
Roads Property Owners Association, 1958-60.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Washington and Annapolis; Reserve Officers
Association; Transportation Corps Officers Association; Annapolis Yacht
Club; American Nurseryman’s Association; Annapolitan Club, Knights of
Columbus; Governor’s Club; Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

puBLicatioNs: Articles on sales management, landscape design and proper util-

ization and care of nursery products in trade and professional journals and
community news media.

IN the past twenty-five years life for me has moved at a fast and
furious pace, and has been full of excitement, richly rewarding and
fully gratifying. My pursuits have led to a beautiful home on Chesa-
peake Bay, the land of pleasant living; a stimulating wife and five
wonderful children, an interest in some race horses, and the pleasures
of fishing, boating and sailing on Chesapeake Bay.

My eldest daughter, Marilyn, has recently been awarded a four-
year scholarship after competing nationally, and is now a freshman
at the College of New Rochelle, New Rochelle, New York. The
two boys, Bill (thirteen) and Jack (eight), are outstanding students,
excellent athletes, and tops in swimming, fishing and boating. The
two youngest girls are developing beautifully in this superb en-
vironment.

A brief review of the past years . . . after graduation I spent two
years in Hartford, Connecticut, learning retailing and store manage-
ment with G. Fox & Company and Sears Roebuck Company. It was
in this city that I met my charming wife and we were married there
in 1942 just prior to being drafted into the U.S. Army. After basic

training as a private was sent to Officer Candidate School and re-
ceived a commission as second lieutenant, Transportation Corps, USA,

1943. Five years later, as a major, left active duty but remained

active in the Transportation Corps Reserve and finally retired in

1962. My last two years of active duty were at New York Port
of Embarkation, Brooklyn, New York, and in the evenings I at-
tended Fordham Law School and after leaving active duty took an

[ 322 ]

concent sill.

7

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

accelerated course day and evening and received my LL.B. in Febru-
ary, 1947. I then took a position with the War Assets Administra-
tion, U.S. Government, setting up disposal centers for sale of war
surplus materials and one year later (1948) accepted position of
operations and merchandise manager for Montgomery Ward &
Company in Albany, New York. This led to my appointment with
the C. W. Stuart Company of Newark, New York, in 1950, and
after several promotions to my present position and location in
Annapolis, Maryland, which allows me easy access to all parts of
the eastern coast (New York to Florida).

ALEXANDER WILLIAM GUY ve POURTALES

epee ene my
f

    

Sra awe, abn

HOME AppREss: Aconcagua 730, Lomas, México 10, DF.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Rio de la Plata 56-303, México 5, DF.

PREPARED AT: Le Rosey School, Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MaRRIED: Virginia Hatch, July 22, 1947. ceitpreNn: Elizabeth Marion, June,
1957; Christiane Lois, August, 1959, Marguerite, December, 1963.

OccuPATION: Manager — sales company, Engelhard Industries of México, 5.A.

MEMBER OF: Brook Club, New York; Newport (R.L) Golf Club; Chapultepec
Golf Club, Mexico City.

AFTER five years of war service in Military Intelligence in the
European and African theatre, I returned to New York and acquired
a wife and a career. Both allowed me to continue my travels, and the
latter called for extended stays in foreign countries, as overseas
manager for Engelhard Industries. .
Brazil, Switzerland, England and now Mexico have welcomed us
more or less heartily, and as a result we have acquired an increased
knowledge of foreign idioms, as well as a steadily decreasing com-

[ 323 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

mand of the English language. Our three daughters are bilingual
and working on a third.

I have learned to accept the fact that America has mostly been a
failure in the role of a Santa Claus, and that we would be more
successful in concerning ourselves primarily with internal problems,
instead of trying to settle those of the world in general. Apart from
business and political conditions in foreign countries, in which I
ain greatly interested, I find time to play a fairly efficient game of
golf, do some deep sea fishing, drive a Maserati car and try to enjoy
the better things of life, while they are still available.

Distance has prevented me from keeping up with my Harvard
connections, but with a growing family and responsibilities, I expect
my travels will soon come to an end, with a more permanent base
of operations indicated.

ROGER ALDEN DERBY, JR.

    

  

as

HOME ADDRESS: 116 E. 63d St., New York, N.Y. roozr.
OFFICE appress: United States Trust Co. of New York, 45 Wall St., New York,
N.Y. 10005.
PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cu laude, 1940; LL.B., 1948.
marriepD: Harriet Lawrence Hutchinson, Nov. 27, 1948. cHitpREN: Richard
Lawrence, Dec. 28, 1953; William Harlan, May 3, 1955; Laurie Hutchinson,
Jan. 26, 1960.
OCCUPATION: Banking.
MEMBER OF: American, New York State and New York City Bar Associations;
Lunch Club, New York City; Millbrook Golf and Tennis Club, Millbrook,
N.Y.

IN college I majored in physics, with a few brief excursions into
other subjects such as fine arts and music, which I wish had been

L 324 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

more extensive and varied. Physics didn’t seem as interesting then
as it does now, and upon graduation I entered Columbia Law School.
At the end of my first year, our country was calling me, and I went
to work for the Navy. On December 7, 1941, I was in a small boat
between Ford Island and Hospital Point at Pearl Harbor when the
first bombs struck. I was then a civilian doing an engineering job
for the Navy, with no training or instructions for this kind of
emergency. The boat was beached, and I took refuge with an
associate in a large pipe. We saw several ships steam out of the
harbor with guns blazing, an inspiring sight. After the noise died
down, we emerged, and helped the Marines move ammunition from
a warehouse. Several months later, I received a commission as
ensign, and served on board ship in the Pacific, but never saw any
further action.

After the war, I completed law school at Harvard, and then I was
associated with the law firm of Simpson, Thacher & Bartlett in New
York City for ten years, specializing in trusts and estates, From
there, I went to United States Trust Company of New York, where
I have been for the last six years. My duties have been varied and
interesting.

I was married in 1948, and have three children, including two
boys of nine and eleven, and a girl of five. We have always lived
in New York City, and ten years ago acquired a small weekend
house in Millbrook, New York, a two-hour drive from the city,
We enjoy the contrast between the heart of the city and the remote
country (although the double life sometimes seems strenuous), and
we lead quiet lives in both places. Although I have occasionally
found time for charitable and civic affairs, most of my time has
been spent on my job or with my family. My hobbies include
music, photography, carpentry and landscaping, none of which
have I pursued with any regularity. Landscaping is a fancy name
for whatever it takes to turn an old farm, deserted for twenty-five
years, into a simple home. One of my daily activities is running a
mile in the streets of Manhattan in the early morning. I have never
seen anyone else engaging in this form of exercise on Park Avenue.

I call myself a liberal Republican; somewhat more liberal than
I was twenty-five years ago. My religion, which was Episcopalian,
is now Presbyterian.

[ 325 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JOHN EDWARD D’ERRICO

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1317 18th St., Santa Monica, Calif. goqo4.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Weingarten Electronics, 7556 Melrose Ave. Los Angeles,
Calif. 90046.

PREPARED AT: Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREE: A.B., cume laude (State Univ. of Iowa),
1942. ;

marriep: Hazel Marie Brown, Sept. 7, 1943. CHILDREN: Roger, June 13, 1948,
Diane, April 22, 1957.

occupation: High-fidelity electronics technician,

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa, Order of Artus; Toastmasters, Independent
Order of Foresters.

pusLications: “A Variable Stereo Suppression Control,” Audio, August, 1958
(reprinted in The Fifth Audio Anthology).

MY hobby is international peace. Before you scoff, and go on to
the next biography, listen: War is not a dispute. It is merely a stereo-
typed inefficient way of settling a dispute. Research can develop
other ways to settle international disputes. Then, war will be
obsolete. It is as simple as that,

This quest for peace has often worked a hardship on my wife and
children, and I must acknowledge with gratitude their unwavering
devotion.

After graduating at the State University of Iowa, I took about
three years of graduate work, some at lowa, some at Columbia
University and some at the University of Chicago. Then I worked
for the Co-ops for two years—at Waukegan, Illinois, and Ann
Arbor, Michigan.

Then, we moved to Santa Monica, California, where we have
lived ever since. A few years in the Vari-typing business was fol-
lowed by my entry into the then-new fidelity business. I opened a

[ 326 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

store of my own for five years, meeting the weekly payroll and the
quarterly taxes, with a little left over for myself. This little was not
enough to pay for my long hours away from my family, so I closed
the doors in 1960, and took a job as high-fidelity technician, which
I hold to this day.

What about peace? I am still working on it. If I am able to make
a notable contribution, what a success story that will be!

ARTHUR ERNEST DESROSIER

|
4
3
z
i

 

HOME ADpRESS: 868 Trenton Drive, Sunnyvale, Calif. 94087.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United Technology Center, 1050 E. Arques, Sunnyvale, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Francesca V. Soncini, Oct. 17, 1945. CHILD: Mrs, Richard Rose.
occupation: Chief, materiel support for Titan III-C space boosters.

SINCE graduation I have spent twenty years in the U.S. Navy and
retired in December, 1960. After retirement I joined industry as
manager of procurement for Ampex Corporation in Redwood City,
California, for two years. I am presently engaged as chief of materiel
support for the space boosters (solid rocket motors manufactured
by United Technology Center) used on the Titan III-C standard
space launch system.

[ 327 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JAMES THOMAS DEVINE

 

OME ADDRESS: 108 Route de Lausanne, Versoix, Switzerland.

“FICE ADDRESS: United States Mission, Geneva, Switzerland.

-EPARED AT: Lawrence Academy, Groton, Mass.

SARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940, LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1948,

arrieD: Caroline Mary Driscoll, Jan. 14, 1950 (died 1955); Rita Mary Walsh,
1958. CHILDREN: Caroline Mary, Jan. 19, 1951; James Thomas, Jr., Oct. 12,
1952; John Joseph, Feb. 1, 1960; Rita Wolfort, July 22, 1961; Patrick Jo-
seph, Oct. 26, 1962.

2VARD BROTHER: John Joseph Devine, Jr., 42 (deceased).

SUPATION: Foreign Service; U.S. Minister to European Office of the United
Nations and other international organizations in Geneva.

ICES HELD: Special Assistant U.S, Attorney, Boston, 1954; executive assistant,
Internal Security Division, Dept. of Justice, 1957-59; confidential assistant,
1959-61; chairman of Standing Committee, Interdepartmental Committee
on Internal Security, National Security Council, 1959-61; assistant to Dep-
uty Attorney General, 1961-62; U.S. Minister to European Office of United
Nations, since 1962; U.S. representative to the executive committee of U.N.
High Commissioner of Refugees; U.S. representative to the International
Telecommunication Union Space Radiocommunication Conference, U.S.
representative to ITU Aeronautical Radio Conference; political adviser
to US. Delegation in following International Conferences: U.N. Confer-
ence on Narcotic Drugs, U.N. Conference on World Meteorology, U.N.
Conference on the Peaceful Uses of Outer Space, Administrative Council

of the International Telecommunication Union,

1BER OF: Bar of Massachusetts and Supreme Court of the United States;

Inland Fisheries Trust, Dublin; Harvard Club of Washington, D.C., —

Groupement des Anciens Etudiants d’Harvard, Geneva; American Club,

Geneva.

the past twenty-five years I can say that my life has been a rather
resting experience. Like all of us I have had ample of joy, tears,
-esses and failures in a lesser or greater degree. However, with

[ 328 ]

7
eee ee eeet ets te eames ts eterna th eamsates: <p daa spsmman ine mea insatentaseessmenncmecentne nc

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

my wife and five healthy children I feel the scales well balanced in
my favor. .

After college I slowly drifted into the war, wherein four years
of mostly Pacific duty on a carrier rubbed off the illusions of youth
and dissipated many of the dreams. I returned to get a law degree,
went to work for the Department of Justice, married and sired two
youngsters. My first wife died in 1955 and in 1958 I had the excel-
lent good fortune to find a charming young Baltimore attorney who
agreed to take on the burden of me and my two gamins. Since that
time we have increased our family to five and until two and a half
years ago we were firmly entrenched in the suburbs of Washington,
D.C., engaged in a normal commuter existence while I served as
assistant to the Deputy Attorney General. However, having reached
the watershed age of forty-five years we decided that the carport
to parking space existence was approaching the humdrum, ergo, I
am now settled in Geneva as U.S. Minister to the European Office
of the United Nations. A different life, different interests, less secure
but vastly more stimulating in that most of the world’s problems
solved and unsolved pass over our desks.

We have rented a large old villa on Lake Geneva with facilities
for swimming and sailing, maintain a ménage that at times speaks
Spanish, French or Italian, ride herd on five youngsters to whom all
languages appear acceptable, and laboriously attempt to govern this
polyglot group in the dulcet tones of Plymouth County. It is an
easy drive to the nearby mountains for climbing and skiing. I man-
age to get several long weekends of bird-shooting in Alsace and a
week’s hunting for hersh and chamois in the Tyrol each year.
Geneva is also an excellent base for touring the cities of Europe.

Before those budget-minded classmates raise the issue of a velvet
life, I must state that the work is ample and varied in either repre-
senting the United States at International Conferences or acting as
political adviser to United States delegations. The social life of the
diplomatic service is probably the most trying part of the job with
a free night during the social season looked upon as a gala occasion.
However, my Harvard education, amply bulwarked by my training
in Jim Cronin’s malt dispensary, has enabled me to meet vodka,
vintages and assorted apertifs with sufficient aplomb to assure that
you are properly represented. Needless to say, for traveling class-
mates the latchstring is always out.

[ 329 ]

ite nas il etait lati ltteer ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

CHESTER JOSEPH DEXTER

  

HOME ADDRESS: 1450 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 51 Brattle St., Cambridge, Mass.

prePARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., ctmi laude, 1940, M.D., 1943.

MarRIED: Elizabeth V. Lorden, Sept. 30, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Surgeon.

oFFices HELD: Clinical associate in surgery, Massachusetts General Hospital,
visiting surgeon, St. Elizabeth's Hospital, Holy Ghost Hospital, Mount
Auburn Hospital, Chelsea Soldier's Home.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery; American College of Surgeons (fel-
low); Boston Surgical Society; Daland Society.

puBicaTions: “Benign Enlargement of the Male Breast,” New England Jour-
nal of Medicine, May 24, 1956; “Acute Diverticulitis of the Cecum with
Perforation,” American Journal of Surgery, September, 1955.

FOLLOWING graduation from Harvard Medical School in 1943
I interned at Boston City Hospital. Upon completion of my intern-
ship I entered the Army in October, 1944. While in the Army I had
the honor and privilege to serve with the eminent General Douglas
MacArthur in Japan. This experience I will long remember and
cherish.

After my tour of military service | completed my surgical resi-
dency training requirement for certification by the American Board
of Surgery. In June, 1952, I entered into the private practice of
surgery. In addition I have part-time teaching appointments at
Harvard and Tufts Medical Schools. I consider my chosen field of
work rewarding and gratifying.

[ 330]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DWIGHT DICKINSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 200 E. 35th St., New York, N.Y. 10016.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Mission to the United Nations, 799 United Nations Plaza,
New York, N.Y. 10017.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Eleanor Anderson Hoge, May 23, 1942. CHILDREN: Spencer Edward,
2d, Nov. 7, 1943; Philip Lloyd, Aug. 25, 1946.

HARVARD SON: Spencer Edward Dickinson, 2d, ’65.

occupation: Foreign service officer (FSO-1, consul general), adviser for Polit-
ical and Security Affairs, U.S. Mission to U.N., New York; Deputy U.S.
Representative to United Nations Trusteeship Council; alternate U.S.
Representative, Special Committee on Decolonization,

MEMBER OF: Conanicut Yacht Club, Jamestown, RI.

HOW shall I write for that very special audience, my classmates?
Do they want to know whether I’m happy and, if so, why? Are
they hoping I have succeeded? Do they want to know that I still
love my wife and am a bit puzzled by my children — who are still
more puzzled by me? Do they want to know whether I like my
work and whether I think Harvard prepared me for it? Do they
really care what clubs I belong to? In short, do they really want
to know what I think? And will they believe me if I tell them?

Five years in the Navy during World War II, in the USS Idaho,
Guadalcanal, Annapolis and the USS Augusta, saw me through the
first years after graduation and taught me a healthy respect for the
Navy’s organization. Those five years also left the United States
with so many international problems that, well-prepared by Harvard,
I was accepted into the expanding U.S. Foreign Service immediately
upon my demobilization.

Twenty years in the Foreign Service, at Mexico City, Curagao,

[ 331]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

Beirut, Rabat, the National War College, Washington and New
York, have left nothing to be desired — or almost nothing. I still
cherish the idea, as do all foreign service officers, of being appointed
ambassador somewhere, but I won't be heartbroken if I’m not.
Meanwhile, I like dealing with the frustrating problems with which
Lam daily faced at the UN. If I weren't stil a little curious about
the world outside, and if I didn’t still have a moderate degree of
ambition, I think I could spend the rest of my working days right
here, going to Narragansett Bay on summer weekends, to an occa-

sional “Harvard football game in the fall, to the theatre in the winter,
and to nearby trout streams in the spring, watching my children
grow up at first hand rather than from far away. Of what more
should life consist?

JAMES SPRAGUE DIGEL

 

HOME ADDRESS; 1443 Sunset Drive, Bogalusa, La.

OFFICE apprEss: Tulane Bio-Medical Computer Center, 124 La Salle St., New
Orleans, La.

PREPARED AT: Bradford Senior High School, Bradford, Pa

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarrieD: Jeannine McGraw, Jan. 29, 1955. cHiLpREN: Deidre, March 22, 1956
James Sprague, zd, June 21, 1958; Michael McGraw, Aug. 1, 1959

> . ’
OCCUPATION: Computer operation — training to be programmer
MEMBER OF: 32d Degree Mason.

SINCE the last Report I continued employment with Gaylord Con-
tainer and they merged with Crown Zellerbach Corporation. I con-
tinued in production until 1958. I then went into cost estimating
until i961. 1 left the company in 1961 and went into advertising
specialties. Since August, 1964, I have been employed by Tulane

{ 332 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

University at their Bio-Medical Computer Center in New Orleans.
I am working in a training program operating computers and learn-
ing programming in the bio-medical field. This is the largest re-
search center at present in this field. I feel this is the most interesting
and worth-while work that I have done in my various occupations
since leaving college.

DAVID BRUCE DILL, JR.

AIT Aree AERA PRD REMMI a REN RRO i eM

  

  

HOME ADDRESS: 33 Rowley St., Gouverneur, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Joseph Lead Co., Balmat, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Sonia Lemish, June 5, 1952. CHILDREN: Alexander Cassel, Nov. 5,
1953; Robin Bruce, Jan. 15, 1955.

OccuPATION: Mining and exploration geologist, base metals.

MEMBER OF: Society of Economic Geologists, Geological Society of America;
American Institute of Mining Engineers.

FOR almost all of the first fifteen years after 1940, my life was in
Latin America; these were my adventurous years. Beginning as a
mine sampler in the tin mines of Bolivia, | worked six long years in
the high Andes, among the Quechua and Aymara Indians, finally
ending up as a unit superintendent. A few short years after being a
very heavy-weight member of the Winthrop crew, I was an
emaciated and bearded transporter of gold bars up the headwaters of
the Amazon.

Returning to the U.S.A. for a time, I served as project manager,
lease-man and exploration geologist, with side trips to Cuba, Brazil,
Jamaica, Central America and Canada. In 1949 I became a resident
of Mexico, where for the next six years there was continuous mine

[ 333 ]

ntl

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

examination and diamond drilling, from the Ponderosa forests of the
Sierra Madre to the tropical slopes along the Guatemalan border.
During this period I had the good luck to meet Sonia, a Smith bio-
chemist, and since then life has gradually become more adjusted and
rewarding. As proof of this, we have just purchased a home, first in
our lives.

For these past nine years my work has been the attempt to unravel
the contorted intricacies of billion-year-old zinc ore bodies in the
marbles of the northern Adirondacks, and only recently I have been
getting back into mineral exploration.
~ These twenty-five years have meant a full cycle in my philosophy
from liberal to conservative and back to liberal (with reservations),
for I have finally realized the need to give up arrogance and
recognize the worthiness of every individual. Scientifically, I have
at last learned to agree with Descartes in discounting unproved

“facts.” Thus, perhaps it has taken me this long to appreciate what
Harvard taught.

BAYARD HARRISON DILLINGHAM

 

HOME appress: 250 Wailupe Circle, Honolulu, Hawaii.

orFice aporess: B. F. Dillingham Co., Ltd., Box 3436, Honolulu, Hawaii.

PREPARED AT; Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MagaieD: Carter Randolph Andrews, Oct. 25, 1947, CHILDREN: Judith Randolph,
Jan. 6, 1950, Bayard Christopher, Dec, 2, 1951 (died Dec. 18, 1962);
Margaret Fraser, Feb. 18, 1953; Jean Atherton, June 30, 1954.

HagvagD BROTHERS: Harold Garfield Dillingham, Jr., ’3q, m..a., 36; John Hen-
ley Dillingham, *4o.

occupation: President, B. F. Dillingham Company, Ltd., investments, financial,

[ 334]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

insurance and travel agents; vice-president, Alexander, Sexton & Carr,
Inc., insurance brokers.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since 1961, vice-president, since 1963, Children’s Hos-
pital; director, since 1952, vice-chairman, since 1961, Armed Services
YMCA.

MEMBER OF: Waikiki Yacht Club (commodore, 1957); Pacific Club, Outrigger
Canoe Club.

THE first year following graduation found me working with the
family company at the very, very bottom — on the docks‘in Hono-
lulu. However, December 7, 1941, brought swift changes — three
months working with the Civil Service in Pearl Harbor and then a
commission in the Navy. The latter tours of duty (mostly sea) led
me from Pearl Harbor to Miami to Norfolk to Quincy to New
Guinea to the Philippines to Shanghai and then, to complete the
circle, back to Pearl.

Following discharge, I joined one of the larger sugar and pine-
apple agencies in Hawaii, which afforded me, among other things,
the opportunity of visiting most of the outer islands in the Hawaiian
chain — something which had been neglected in earlier life due, I
think, to the demands of getting a higher education along the shores
of the Charles. Some ten years later I became associated with my
present company, a family concern specializing in the fields of in-
vestments, insurance and a newly acquired travel business. However,
a more recent and interesting highlight, I think, has been the affilia-
tion with fellow Classmate Roger Lapham in a unique and successful
nationwide insurance brokerage venture.

In 1947 I met a lovely girl from Virginia who came to the islands
with the foolish idea that she would be staying only for a short
visit. To prove the point, Kitty and I were married in Alexandria,
Virginia, a few months later (with Augie Meyer, Vince Bailey and
my brother Henley doing a noble job of ushering), and we have
lived in Hawaii ever since. In the years that followed, we were
blessed with three lovely daughters and a son.

It is only axiomatic to say that everyone of us since graduation
must have had our good and bad years. The year 1962 was a sad one
for Kitty and me when we lost our boy as he entered his eleventh
year. Needless to say, our girls have been a great comfort and we
had the pleasure and fun a year later of all driving together across
the Continent — from the rocky shores of Maine to the Golden Gate
in San Francisco. And, if nothing else, this trip taught them three
important things: 1) how to live together day after day in a station

[ 335 ]

—— [|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

wagon without tearing each other’s eyes out; 2) a yen for travel,
3) a great appreciation of home.

++ HENRY GAYLORD DILLINGHAM

 

aRN: April 20, 1918, Honolulu, Hawaii. parents: Walter Francis Dilling-
ham, ’o2, Louise Gaylord.

-EPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

=ARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1040, DEGREE! A.B, 1940.

ARRIED: Constance Shepard, Jan. 16, 1942.

RVARD BROTHER: Benjamin Franklin Dillingham, ’39.

-p: Killed in action, July 25, 1945, over Kawasaki Harbor, Japan,

ENRY GAYLORD DILLINGHAM entered service as a second

utenant and trained at Honolulu, Hawaii, and Boise, Idaho. A

otain (pilot) in the Air Force, he was a flight leader of a formation

B-29 super- -fortresses when he was killed j in action while par-

ipating in an attack on oil refineries at Kawasaki Harbor, Japan.

was survived by his wife.

[ 336 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN HENLEY DILLINGHAM

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 611 Hakaka Pl., Honolulu 15, Hawaii,

JOEL CARTER DINWIDDIE

 

HOME appreEss: R.F.D. 5, Columbia, Mo.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Missouri, Columbia, Mo.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

UN MARRIED,

OccUPATION: Farming.

[ 337]

et

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.0

ROBERT HUGH DION

Fe een cee

    

HOME ADDRESS: 221 E. Lake, Lewistown, Mont.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 515 Montana Bldg., Lewistown, Mont.
PREPARED AT: Dawson High School, Glendive, Mont.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940, DEGREES: $.B., 1940; M.D. (Johns Hopkins Univ.),

1943.

maraiep: Mary Kathleen Cleckley, June 24, 1945. cuimpreN: Kathleen Cecilia,
Sept. 26, 1947; Maxine Marie, Jan. 28, 1949; Robert Hugh, Dec. 26, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frederic Eugene Dion, M.B.A., °39.

occupation: Physician and surgeon,

MEMBER OF: Medical, local, state and national affiliations, including Fergus
County Medical Society, Montana Medical Association, American Medical

Association, National Association of Railroad Physicians and Surgeons,
American Association of Physicians and Surgeons, etc.

MANY years ago in my early teens when I was sampling some of
Montana’s incomparable trout fishing in the high Rockies, I chanced
to meet a most unusual character. This robust individual ran a most
unusual establishment in the little mining town of Silver Gate.
Serving the general community he had a saloon, a barber shop in the
back and several ladies of doubtful virtue on the second floor. In
spite of these enterprises he fished daily in the high mountain lakes
and crystal streams. In the fall he killed a fat cow moose and sat the
winter out in the overwhelming snows. I dubbed him “Moosemeat
Joe” and to this happy and prosperous fellow I perhaps owe some of
my philosophy of life.

As the years went on I saw that I could best serve my fellow man
and myself as a practitioner of the healing art. Therefore I ob-
tained a degree at Harvard and Johns Hopkins, and had internship
and residency at Georgia Medical School. After a short and un-
impressive war record I returned to my beloved Montana. Still re-

[ 338 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

calling the stench of the abattoirs west of Harvard and the in-
dustrial pollution I searched the state for a spot to settle with un-
spoiled atmosphere, excellent hunting and fishing amid beautiful
scenery. Here in the heart of the Judith Basin.where the air and the
people are genuine I have found everything I wanted. A chance to
serve my fellow man, an opportunity to enjoy supreme outdoor ac-
tivities, fast disappearing in our rapidly growing nation. And, of
course, best of all to enjoy the company of my charming and beauti-
ful wife as we raise our family in the great and spacious West.

JOSEPH JEFFERS DODGE

 

HOME AppREss: 1836 Elizabeth Pl., Jacksonville 5, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cummer Gallery of Art, Jacksonville 4, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Detroit University School, Grosse Pointe, Mich.,; Choate School,
Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1940.

MarriED: Jane H. Pike, 1938 (divorced 1949); Dorothy Van Orden MacArthur,
Sept. 24, 1949. CHILDREN: Joseph Morrell, 2d, March 16, 1941; Dorothy
Van Orden, March 15, 1952; Julia Jeffers, May 29, 1954; Jeffers MacArthur,
July 30, 1955; Lisa Morrell, Aug. 14, 1956.

HARVARD SON: Joseph Morrell Dodge, 2d, ’62.

occuPaTION: Director, Cummer Gallery of Art.

MEMBER OF: Southeastern Art Museum Directors Association; Florida Artists
Group (director); American Institute of Interior Designers; Civic Music
Association (director); Rotary Club; Torch Club; Harvard Club of New
York.

PUBLICATIONS: Several hundred paintings shown in numerous one-man shows
and group exhibitions, a few prizes; numerous articles in exhibition cata-
logues, etc.

MY positive accomplishments are largely to be seen in my family,
my paintings and my professional work as a museum man and

[ 339 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

teacher. These, T hope, can speak for themselves, as to describe th
in meaningful detail would be too long and too boring and, perhz
too immodest for these pages. As for the rest — the pleasures, -
failures, the problems, the wasted times, the missed opportunit:
the wrong choices, the sins of omission and commission, etc., th
would undoubtedly make more interesting reading but are t
personal and somehow inappropriate for this glorious anniversar

At least once every twenty-five vears, we should “think positivel:
and be forgiven for bragging a little bit.

EDMUND JANES DOERING, II

 

HOME appREsS: 1250 Elm Tree Rd., Lake Forest, Ill.

OFFice ADpREsS: Marshall Field & Co., 111 N. State St., Chicago, Ill.
PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1940.

marrieD: Caroline Castle, 1940. cHitoren: Edmund Janes, 3d; Alfred Castle.
HARVARD SON: Alfred Castle Doering, 67.

OCCUPATION: Assistant merchandise manager, Marshall Field & Company.

offices HELD: Director, Chicago Maternity Center; president, University Club
of Chicago.

MEMBER oF: Onwentsia Club; Racquet Club; Harvard Club of New York;
University Club of Chicago.

1 JOYNED Marshall Field & Company upon graduation from Har-
vard. From 1941 through 1945, | served in the U.S. Navy, for the
most part as commanding officer of various types of landing craft
in the Pacific and Mediterranean campaigns. | rejoined Marshall
Field in 1946.
1 was married in 19qo and my wife and I have two sons, one doing

premedical work in his senior year at Princeton and our younger
raking a liberal arts course in his second year at Harvard.

L340 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR ALEXANDER DOLE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3662 Woodlawn Terrace PI., Honolulu, Hawaii 96822.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Psychology, University of Hawaii, Honolulu.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREES: A.B. (Antioch Coll.), 1946; a.m. (Ohio
State Univ.), 1949; Pep. (ibid.), 1951.

MARRIED: Marjorie Welsh, March 19, 1949. CHILDREN: Peter Lowrey, Oct. 31,
1952; Steven Mann, June 21, 1954; Barbara Lani, 1956.

occupaTIoN: Associate professor of psychology, University of Hawaii.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association, American Association of
University Professors, American Association for the Advancement of
Science; American Personnel and Guidance Association; National Rehabili-
tation Association; Sigma Xi; Phi Delta Kappa; NAACP; ACLU; etc.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in professional journals such as Journal of Counseling
Psychology, Journal of Social Psychology, Journal of Clinical Psychology,
Personnel and Guidance Journal, Adult Education, Higher Education,
Educational and Psychological Measurement, Vocational Guidance Quar-
terly, Journal of Educational Research, etc.

AS I think back over the twenty-eight years since I received per-
mission to withdraw for a year from Harvard for financial reasons, I
imagine that an observer would consider the first nine years as rather
extraordinary and the succeeding nineteen years as rather ordinary.
1937-46 The Flounderer — After a bleak period out of college
during the recession, I transferred to Antioch (a trade for Bill
Kruskal!) and eventually moved out of English literature and into
psychology as a major. With a semester to go — since I objected
conscientiously to the war —I was federalized. At various times I
sawed trees, served as an experimental subject in physiological studies
(yeast diets, extreme heat), and supervised homicidal psychotics.
1946-51 The Student Reborn — Hungry for normalcy, I finally
finished my undergraduate education. While completing g craduate

[ 341 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

studies in psychology at Ohio State University, I married Marjorie
Welsh. The honeymoon was scarcely over when I caught polio.
With Marj as faithful typist, | wrote my dissertation flat on my back.

1952-58 The Solid Foung Citi zen —] accepted a job in Hawaii
as director of the student counseling center at the state (then terri-
torial) university. The normal accomplishments of young adult-
hood were for me immensely gratifying — our own house, car, dog,
TV set, and especially the arrival of three children. Best of all, good
health returned.

1959-65 The Mellowing College Professor —A few years ago I
moved from educational administration to instruction. Much of my
time is now spent in research and writing and in teaching graduate
students. My specialty is psychological counseling. Although per-
haps not the path to wealth, fame, and glory, I find it exciting and
important.

Other gratifications: The development of Peter, Steve, and
Barbara; bowling, bridge, reading, a bi-weekly discussion group,
passive appreciation of the fine arts, bi-annual trips to the rest of the
world, and weekends with friends at our beach cottage.

As I sip my martini and contemplate the Polynesian sunset, what
does my Harvard year mean to me now? I recollect with distaste the
cruel and subtle discriminations some classmates exercised against
others because of religion, ethnic origin, tailor, prep school, or
diminished wallet. Also, I found personally uncongenial a past time
orientation. I sensed an emphasis on ancestry, on whom you know
rather than who you are, on status rather than potentiality, and on
position rather than character and competence.

On the other hand, I prize most deeply Harvard's encouragement
of the quest for knowledge in an atmosphere of great academic free-
dom, the free play of ideas and Harvard’s respect for intelligence and
originality. This has compensated for any lesser sins. Veritas!

[ 342 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ PAUL THOMAS DONLAN

 

BORN: June 23, 1918, Arlington, Mass. PARENTS: Michael Stanislaus Donlan,
’06, Elizabeth Brennan.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Nancy Eleanor Kimball, June 2, 1945, St. Petersburg, Fla. (divorced
1950). CHILD: Frederick Thomas, Sept. 17, 1947.

pieD: Nov. 11, 1960, Buffalo, N.Y.

AFTER college and graduate work at Harvard and Boston Uni-
versity, Donlan entered the teaching profession and taught at
schools in Georgia, Florida, Massachusetts, New Hampshire and
California, At the time of his death he was an associate professor
in the Romance Languages Department at New York State Teach-
ers College. He was survived by his parents and his son.

HARRY HAMPTON DONNALLY, JR.

   

ose

HOME appress: 93 Eighth Ave., Brooklyn, N.Y, rr21s.
[ 343 ] -

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

OFFICE AppRESs: Empire City Savings Bank, 830 Third Ave. New York, N.Y,
10022.

preparep aT: St. Albans School for Boys, Me. St. Albans, Washington, D.C,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1941. DEGREE: A.B. 1940( 41),

sarriep: Helen Duncan Littletield, July 9, 1955. cauupren: Bruce Hampton,
May 1, 1957; Andrew Jameson, Feb. 7, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Reaumur Stearnes Donnally, ‘40.

occuPaTIon: Mortgage services, Empire City Savings Bank,

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, First Unitarian Church, Brooklyn, N.Y., three-year term,
vice-president, Brooklyn Chapter, United Nations Association of the

United States of America, Inc. (recent merger with U.S. Committee for
the U.N.), since 1960.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

HAVE been with the Empire City Savings Bank since November
14, 1955. Handle servicing of conventional loans, also take care of
servicing of VA and FHA loans when other servicer is on vacation

—make some of the physical inspections and do some of the ap-
praisal work.

REAUMUR STEARNES DONNALLY

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 1827 23d St. N.W., Washington, D.C. 2008.
PREPARED AT: St. Albans School for Boys, Mc. St. Albans, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B. 1940, M.D. (Johns Hopkins Univ.),
194}.

MarrieD: Katherine Ann Sutliff, Dec. 27, 1950, cHitoREN: Reaumur Stearnes,

Jr. and Vincent Raymond (twins), Sept. 17, 1951, Robert Andrew, July
10, 1953; Margaret Elaine, April 2, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harry Hampton Donnally, Jr., go.

OCCUPATION: Private practice in internal medicine,

DONNALLY’S brother, Harry Hampton Donnally, Jr., sent in the
following information:

| 344 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

“My brother has been in private practice as an internist in Wash-
ington, D.C., since 1949. He was the late President John F. Ken-
nedy’s physician for Inauguration Day only — January 20, 1961.
Also sad to relate, his twin sons served as altar boys at President
Kennedy’s funeral in Washington, D.C., on November 25, 1963, at
St. Matthew’s Cathedral. In this connection, I am sure, most of us
will find the 25th Reunion somewhat less joyful than it would have
been had our distinguished classmate been alive to attend it.”

JOHN LANIER DONNELL

 

HOME appress: 6 Mayfair Rd., St. Louis, Mo. 63124.

OFFICE apprEss: Donnell, Schoenbeck & Donnell, 611 Olive St., St. Louis, Mo.
63101.

PREPARED AT: Webster Groves High School, Webster Groves, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B. 1940; LL.B. (Washington Univ,, St.
Louis), 1943.

MarRIED: Ruth Latzer, Nov. 30, 1946, Clayton, Mo. cHitpreNn: Susan, Jan. 21,
1949; Elizabeth, Dec. 20, 1951; Barbara, Oct. 15, 1955; John Forrest, Nov. 7,
1957+ .

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm,

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Epworth School for Girls, since 1947; president, St.
Louis Scottish Rite Class, 1955; trustee, Jefferson National Expansion Me-
morial Association, since 1960; chairman, Modern Patriot Award Commit-
tee, St. Louis Chapter, Sons of the Revolution, 1964.

MEMBER OF: American and St, Louis Bar Associations; Association of the Bar
of the City of New York; American Law Institute; American Judicature
Society; John Marshall Club; Phi Delta Phi; Barristers’ Inn; Harvard Club
of St. Louis; Noonday Club (St. Louis).

THE practice of law has increasingly occupied my principal atten-
tion. My deepest interest, however, has been and is in my family.
From April to November, 1964, I devoted much time and effort

[ 345 ]

HARVARD SO o4
mpaign for erno Miss of my pele clov ed frieng

han Shepley, former chancellor of Washin n University, ha €
tved as chairman of his State Speakers’ Committee.
Among my other ueside es has b the taking of several
‘ve roles since 1946 moting redevelopment
‘owntown St. hou The wo ork of this ciation is now result.
directly in erec of a 630-foot stai nes ess steel arch on the St.

River front a nd i ndirectly in construction of a §0,000-seat

stadium plus the building of innumerable other structures,
1g skyscraper office buildings and luxury apartments, the
st of all such improvements being in the neighborhood of a
ollars. These vast improvements are making downtown St.
ressive and dynamic.

auch of the time that probably the most useful personal
2 (a) a proper degree of perspective and (b) a lively sense
A man blessed with these qualities (I wish I had them in
cree!) is most fortunate.

RALPH CARLTON DORAN, JR.

 

Anne

vatick, ‘Mass,
micld School, Wellesley, Mass
h School, Dartmouth, Mass,

DEGREES: 4.B,, 1940; EDM, (Boston Unuv,), 1949

June 7, 1941. ciutoreN: Ralph Carlton, 38, Oct
Jan. 14, 1947.
Wille Doran, 42
pani

omittee, Ludlow and Natick Nass, 1943
Ih pscopal Church, Natick, Mass

Association Vasc Teachers Assoctt

yO

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tion; Massachusetts Elementary School Principals’ Association, National
Department of Elementary School Principals.

TWENTY-FIVE years have settled me only a dozen miles from
Cambridge, yet some changes have occurred. In early June of 1941, I
abandoned my single state and married Ethel Pierpont of Belmont.
In due course two became four, as Ralph, 3d, and Lindley joined the
family. The basic pattern of our home life was now established, or
so we thought. More on this later.

That I would eventually reside in Harvard’s backyard certainly
seemed unlikely during the first few years of my life in the outside
world. From the principalship of a small elementary school in the
Berkshires, I moved to positions in Alabama, Maryland and Europe —
all with the U.S. Army. The year 1946 saw me back in the Berk-
shires; 1948 in the Connecticut Valley. Finally in 1952, I turned east
once more — this time to Wellesley, where I have spent the past
twelve and a fraction years serving as principal of three different
schools.

Outside of my work, the two big influences in our lives have
been children and community. We have been Scout and 4-H
leaders; everything in the church from dish washers to Sunday Schoo]
teachers, to vestryman; and mainstays of more than one P.T.A. For
years we have wandered around the northeast attending contests in
football, track, lacrosse, baseball and assorted athletic events. School
dramatic productions, hikes, cookouts, overnights —we know all
about them. They’ve been full, wonderful years, but they’re nearly
over, for Ralph, 3d, graduated from Tufts last June and Lindy will
enter college in the fall. Unable to unwind, we're eagerly looking
forward to our grandchildren.

As I look ahead I find myself differing strongly with the view-
point which is all too prevalent today — that the world is in bad
shape and can only get worse. Perhaps my close association with
young people for so long explains my feeling. I’m certain that some
of their enthusiasm and optimism has rubbed off on me. These kids
are well educated, very creative and possess a lot more strength of
character than they are generally given credit for. I’m not worried
about the future.

[ 347]

HARVARD CLASS OF [940

JAMES APPLETON DOUGHTY

   

dobhis. A Bis tnt 8h

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1660 S. Beretania St., Honolulu, Hawaii 96814.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., 1940; ED.M., 1957.

Marpriep: Margaret Hill, Dec. 6, 1945. cuiLpreN: Anne Hill, Jan. 17, 1947; James
Appleton, Jr., Feb. 15, 1950; Joanna, Dec, 30, 1960.

HARVARD BROTHER: Howard Nott Doughty, Jr., '26, A.M. "29.

occupation: Education, history teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Ipswich School Committee, 1956-59; member, board of
directors, Ipswich Historical Society, 1956-59; chairman, English Depart-

ment, Shore Country Day School, History Department, Hawaii School for
Girls.

MEMBER OF: Parachute Club of America; Harvard Club of Hawaii

AFTER graduating I taught for two years. I spent three years in
the service, two years in the American Field Service and one year
with the British Special Boat Squadron in the Dodecanese — part of
that year I spent in Stalag 14B. I was married in Inverness and then
to teaching at the Harvey School in Hawthorne, New York, until

1953- For the next nine years I taught at the Shore School in Beverly,

Massachusetts. I then signed on with a friend from graduate school

days who had been appointed head of a new day school in Honolulu,
a place which I find makes a pleasant change from the East

[ 348 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILIP ARNETT DOUGLAS

remem
f

      

bi % ma

HOME ADDRESS: 24 Romar Drive, Annapolis, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 413 Bond Bldg., Washington 5, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Blake Country Day School, Hopkins, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREES: S.B, (Univ. of Arizona), 1941; 5.M. (Univ,
of Michigan), 1948.

MarRIED: Alma D, Moots, Jan. 14, 1939. CHILDREN: Dorothy, June 12, 1940 (971.
J. Brookfield Nosler, Jr., June, 1962); Cheryl Anne, June 27, 1943 (7. Gary
C. Nelson, May, 1962).

HARVARD BROTHER: Rev. Richard Gilmore Douglas, 4.M. ’30.

OCCUPATION: Professional fishery biologist; executive secretary, Sport Fishing
Institute; treasurer, Sport Fishery Research Foundation. (Both are pri-
vately endowed, non-government, non-profit, professionally-staffed con-
servation organizations.)

OFFICES HELD: Member, Centennial Committee, American Fisheries Society,
1964-70; president, Romar (Community) Association, Inc., Annapolis, Md.,
1962-64.

MEMBER OF: Phi Sigma — Beta Chapter, University of Michigan (Biol. Hon.),
American Institute of Biological Sciences; Society of Ichthyologists and
Herpetologists; Military Order of the World Wars (Annapolis Chapter);
Naval Reserve BuShips Unit 5-3, Washington, D.C.

PUBLICATIONS: Various publications (1948-60) in California Fisb and Game
Quarterly (scientific publication) on fishery management and biology for
California Fish and Game Department.

I DESERTED the East for the West and became a follower of
Daniel Boone and his trapline out of Tucson, Arizona — catching
bobcats, coyotes and badger, while trying to master the art of pass-
ing U. of A. exams in mechanical engineering and advanced physics
and math. These paltry furs did not appeal to my good wife, so I
was forced to abdicate to the golden industry of California prior to
World War II.

Successive promotions in Consolidated Aircraft Corporation, San

. 1349]

—_—"_ erent

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Diego, led me to believe I was destined for better things back in
Arizona. Goodyear Aircraft Corporation, Litchfield Park, helped
make life easier for my family of two small daughters, then, so up the
ladder in Tool Engineering I went. World War II had begun, and
my ever-restless spirit said “Volunteer!” Luckily the Navy made me
an ensign before the Army and Marines could gather me in for the
tough row they had to hoe. Aviation Ordnance became my specialty,
and after a year of schooling at NAS Jacksonville, I was considered
to be an expert. Working with bomber squadrons along the east
coast told me I should try for combat areas — so I applied for duty
at NAS Minneapolis (my home town) and I got my orders to the
Philippines! (Rather typical!) Palawan and Luzon are beautiful
islands, but what was I doing there?

Of course, all things come to an end sooner or later. The war was
over and I had the financial benefits of the G.I. Bill on education. I
changed my avocation into my vocation; and learned all about the
birds and the bees, literally. With intensive study at Michigan State
College and the University of Michigan I made a complete switch
from engineering to zoology, with specialization in fishery biology.
California beckoned once more and back to Southern California and
Whittier I took my family. Eleven years there as district fishery
biologist gave me credit for helping to establish a sport fishery in

the formerly game-fish-barren Salton Sea, a 135-square-mile body of
water adjacent to Palm Springs. Fishes from the Gulf of California,

Mexico, were transplanted into this saline water — out of thirty-five

different species of food and game fishes, some five desirable species

established themselves. Today, fine catches of 5- to 40-pound

corvina (brother to the white sea bass) are made in the inland sea.
In 1958 1 was employed by the Wildlife Conservation Board (ob-

taining its capital from legislative grants from the state pari-mutuel

race track tax) as a special consultant. In 1960 I joined this staff on

a permanent civil service basis and helped spend about $20 million

on capital improvements for conservation — boat launching ramps,
hatchery and game farm modernization programs, coastal access,
fishing lakes, public piers and hunting areas, etc,

I practically threw my present boss out of my California office
when he suggested I give up all the above and move to Washington,

D.C., as executive secretary of the Sport Fishing Institute. However,
1 did!

This job, on a national scale, is most interesting and very challeng-
ing. Intimate work with the Congress on conservation issues —
nm issu

[350] _

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

remember, they’re all saying this 88th was a Conservation Congress
— has opened my eyes and thoughts to the intricate ways of our
Nation. I hope this all continues.

+k JAMES REYNOLDS DOWD

 

BORN: July 31, 1917, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Thomas Henry Dowd, Helen
Dolan,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREE: A.B., 1940(39).

MARRIED: Frances Connelly, June, 1941. CHILDREN: James Reynolds, Jr.; Thomas
Henry, 3d.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Henry Dowd, Jr., ’36, LL.B., 40.

pieD: Killed in action, June 6, 1944, in Normandy, France.

JAMES REYNOLDS DOWD was entering his second year at the
Law School when he volunteered for active duty as a second lieu-
tenant with the Seventh Field Artillery of the-First Division. He
went Overseas in 1942 and served with the First Division in all its
campaigns. Ele was promoted to the grade of captain in 1943. At
the battle of El Guettar he won the Silver Star for gallantry in
action. From the Mediterranean the First Division was sent to
England to prepare for the invasion of the continent. Dowd was
killed in action on D-Day while leading an advanced artillery
observation party. He was survived by his wife and children.

[351]

meee teteneeeetetneten ce

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

PHILIP GODFREY DOWNES

 

HOME ADDRESS: 9 Myopia Rd., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Downes Lumber Co., 100 Southampton St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Valia de Bourdgi, Oct. 5, 1945. CHILDREN: Valia Patrice, April 18,
1947 (died 1951); Philip Jerome, May 22, 1950; Marianne, May 8, 1952;
Peter, Feb. 4, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Thomas Downes, ’34; James Edward Downes, °35, LL.B., "38.
occupation: Vice-president and director, Downes Lumber Company.
MEMBER OF: Winchester Country Club.

1 WOULD like to write — “Where did you go? Out! What did
you do? Nothing!” However, my children made such a shout
that perhaps I should say that between graduate school and medical
school I was on a canoe trip in Hudson Bay. That after not being
able to catch all that was being thrown at me my first year at
Cornell Medical School, I volunteered into the Army of the United
States. The officers were so lousy that I felt that I might do better,
so I went to Fort Benning, Georgia, to acquire some gold bars,
then California and was all set for Australia when they discovered
I had majored in French, back to Washington, D.C., then Camp
Ritchie and by 1943 I was watching the few last blitzes on London.
Assigned to SHAEF, I met various boys there, among them Jim
Dowd who got cut down getting out of his landing craft on D-Day.
When SHAEF moved over the winter, or fall I should say, to
Versailles the war was over for me except for a brief flurry during
the Bulge. Got transferred out of SHAEF when it was about to
move to Frankfort, to do political intelligence as I had met a sweet
young thing whom I married as fast as Army regulations allowed.
Home to moth-eaten suits in 1946 and the impossible situation

[352]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of trying to find a place to live with my war bride, resolved about
1948.

We live — or perhaps I should say, I have lived — in two worlds,
that of business, which my father thought should be learned from
the bottom up, and the world of my home.

I went on the road as a salesman before he died in 1950 and when
our first child was killed by a motorcycle in 1951 I had the solace
of a son. God was good when He gave us another daughter in
1952. So while the customers screamed and the babies yelled we
became a two-car family and remodelled the house. Then, after
four years, we were surprised to find ourselves with a brand-new
handsome young man, Peter.

Now Peter is eight and my wife has become a painter with a
gold medal and an exhibitor in the Boston Arts Festival. The two
older children are fighting the battle of all teen-agers and after
building a new house I am fighting the battle of allowances.

Seeing the problem in education about six years ago, I am gradu-
ally phasing out of the family business and hope to have my Ed.M.
by next fall. Anybody looking for a teacher?

GEORGE ANDREWS DOWNING

Pert errr tern RSET. EAR mn
e :

    

HOME ADDRESS: 44 Forest Drive, Wethersfield, Conn.

OFFICE apprEss: Liberty Mutual Insurance Co., 63 E. Center St., Manchester,
Conn.

PREPARED AT: Hingham High School, Hingham, Mass.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H. ;

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; LL.B., 1946.

MARRIED: Josie Allison Brown, Feb. 21, 1946. CHILDREN: George Andrews, Jr.
Nov. 23, 1946; Wesley William, May 5, 1949; Harold Eric, May 16, 1954.

occupaTIon: Resident attorney, Greater Hartford area.

L 353]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

MEMBER OF: American, Connecticut and Hartford County Bar Associations;
Pine Acres Club, Inc.; A.F. & A.M.

AFTER graduating, I learned that neither the Navy nor the Marines
needed a “blind man” with an “underbite,” so I completed two years
of law school before the Army drafted me. After eight months in
the Reception Center at Devens, I was back at school (University
of Pennsylvania) being taught Moroccan Arabic. Shipped to Egypt,
I became a cryptographer.

In civilian clothes in January, 1946, I re-enrolled in law school
January rsth, married February 21st, graduated in September, had
a son in November, passed the Massachusetts bar examinations in
December, and was working on an LL.M. when all monies ran out
and I joined the legal staff of the Liberty Mutual Insurance Company
in Boston. After eight years in Boston, I was sent to Hartford,
Connecticut, to open its first legal department in this state.

The move to Connecticut with my wife and three sons was a
major family upheaval—the salt water had disappeared, and the
public beaches in Connecticut were too few and too far away. Gone
was the Yacht Club, Saturday and Sunday racing, swimming and its
social functions. Even a private swim club did not satisfy rhe family’s
insatiable appetite. Thus was born a summer home in Wellfleet, Cape
Cod, built by the family, who now have the greatest respect for
masons, carpenters, plumbers and electricians.

With three boys I have been a Cubmaster, relived my Boy Scout
experiences, suffered as two boys played Little League baseball,
attended basketball and football games and club swim meets. At the
moment of writing, the eldest is in college playing soccer; the second
boy, a sophomore on the high school football team; and the third,

still active in Cub Scouts. In other words, there is more of the same
in the future.

Representing a large casualty insurance company for sixteen years
has made me a specialist in the rough-and-tumble side of the law.
While 1 am not convinced that our archaic court systems and un-
educated juries are the final answer to “just compensation” for the

injured, neither am I convinced that some type of politically ap-
pointed administrative body in their place holds a more just answer
to this growing problem. Note that I still hold to a basic sense of
justice for all, despite my numerous scars of battle. In a larger sense,
the forced specialization in the law, and in all fields for that matter,
seems to indicate that our generation is in a state of flux, going
through a rapid violent change to an ultimate unknown end.

[ 354]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In another field, a furlough in the Holy Land impressed me
sufficiently so that I have taught Sunday School for ten years, con-
fining my efforts recently to the fourteen- and fifteen-year-old boys,
and I am back again for still another year hoping to indoctrinate
moral principles via faith. This satisfies my legal sense of justice, I
suppose, for our law, I believe, is based upon our Christian moral
code. .

Finally, an artistic side has appeared — honestly — born three
years ago of a whim, and I have been drawing portraits in pastel
chalks and thoroughly enjoying it, as an escape from painting the
inside and outside of the house at three-year intervals. Nothing
professional, but satisfying my ego are framed portraits of fourteen
children of friends and business acquaintances.

While I feel pessimistic toward certain local, national, and inter-
national developments on occasion, I still am an optimist, and my
optimism was best expressed by Marston Bates in The Forest and the
Sea: “Surely, men who can manufacture a moon can learn to stop
killing each other; men who can control infectious disease can learn
to breed more thoughtfully than guinea pigs, men who can measure
the universe can learn to act wisely in handling the materials of the
universe.”

ROGER CHADBOURNE DOWNS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 182 Rosedale St., Beaconsfield, P.Q., Canada.

OFFICE apprEss: Burlington Industries, 130 St. Joseph Blvd., Lachine, P.Q.,
Canada.

PREPARED AT: Winchester High School, Winchester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

[355]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

MarriED: Betty Louise Fagerland, Feb. 1, 1947. cup: Roger Chadbourne, Jr.,
April 14, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Warren Downs, Jr., 38; John Henry Downs, Lu.2.,
"47+

occupation: Production manager — textiles.

MEMBER OF: Civitan International.

+ HERBERT MELVILLE DOWSETT, JR.

 

BorN: July 31, 1918, Honolulu, Hawaii. parents: Herbert Melville Dowsett,
Laura Nott.

PREPARED AT: Fountain Valley School, Colorado Springs, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarRIED: Elizabeth Schuyler Rowley, March 20, 1942, Larchmont, N.Y.

pieD: Nov. 18, 1947, Newcastle, Del.

AFTER graduation Dowsett entered the U.S. Naval Reserve as an
aviation cadet, attained the rank of lieutenant, instructed at the
Pensacola Naval Air Station and later became commander of a
Navy patrol plane in the Pacific area. He was awarded the Air
Medal and the Navy and Marine Corps Medal with citations. He
was killed in an airplane crash and was survived by his wife.

[ 356 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HENRY GRATTAN DOYLE, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 5309 Ridgefield Rd., Washington, D.C. 20016.
PREPARED AT: Western High School, Washington, D.C,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940(41).

marrieD: Mary M. McGee. cuiLpren: Karen Hale, Oct. 12, 1950; Henry Grat-

tan, 3d, Feb. 27, 1953..
HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Carr Doyle, '42.
OCCUPATION: Speculator.
I AM happy to be alive. Otherwise no sage comments for our
Class or posterity.

EDWARD GOULSTON DREYFUS

 

HOME ApprEss: 64 Long Wharf, Boston, Mass. 02110.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston University School of Medicine, 750 Harrison Ave., Bos-
ton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rivers School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 19403 M.D. 1951; M.P.H., 1954.

UNMARRIED.

[ 357]

" HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

HARVARD BROTHER: Carl Dreyfus, ’39.

OCCUPATION: Physician; associate professor of preventive medicine and associate
professor of medicine, Boston University School of Medicine,

MEMBER OF: Various medical societies and associations; Medical Committee for
Human Rights; Chorus Pro Musica; Aesculapian Club; Boylston Society.

HOW does one make decisions? Twenty-five years ago, the one
thing I knew I didn’t want to be was a doctor. But WHAT TO DO?
A convenient war let me postpone the future, and I became first a
gunner, then a mess officer (on the Queen Mary). Neither of these
offering much future, I somehow went into medicine and public
health. Mv total Harvard intra-uterine gestation lasted eighteen
years, which seems ridiculous. Since then at Boston University
School of Medicine J have acquired a bunch of titles and committees,
but actually all I do is teach. I do no research to speak of, so if I
haven't advanced medicine much, at least I] haven’t added to the
confusion. I still enjoy the start of a new class—TI suppose I like
the sound of my own voice (with shortness of breath comes long-
ness of wind).

I have managed pretty well to avoid wives, children, houses, boats,
hobbies, pets and, above all, skiing. A few stalwart plants survive my
neglect. I have stayed in Boston except for two years in Cambridge
which, however, proved too rural. [ now have a superb harbor-
view apartment which I expect to be redeveloped out of any day,
and my life is reasonably hedonistic. Travel, choral singing, sculpture
and wine suit my neuroses well. I do not know what P.T.A. means.

Post-election P.S. What should a thoughtful person do who
believes in the two-party system?

[ 358]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN DRISCOLL

 

BORN: Jan. 9, 1919, Jamaica Plain, Mass. ParRENTs: Edgar Joseph Driscoll,
Katharine Rooney.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge School, Weston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937, 1938-1941. DEGREE: A.B., 1940(41).

MARRIED: Frances Page Poindexter, Nov. 4, 1944, Hilton Village, Va. cHILpREN:
John P., Feb. 16, 1950; Francis P., Dec. 13, 1952.

piED: Feb. 20, 1963, North Tarrytown, N.Y.

wivow: Mrs. John Driscoll, 102 Merlin Ave., North Tarrytown, N.Y.

WHILE an undergraduate Driscoll was a resident of Leverett
House and a member of the Ski Club and the Speakers Club. After
World War II, during which he served five years in the U.S. Navy
and attained the rank of lieutenant commander, he spent two years
at the Law School and a number of years as a salesman for Robert
Gair Company, Inc., manufacturers of folding boxes, in New York
City. At the time of his death, Driscoll was an officer of the
Leverett Manufacturing Company in New York City. He was
survived by his wife and children.

[359]

HARVARD CLASS OF I940

EDWARD ANDREW DUBOIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 534 Ferry St., Marshfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Polaroid Corp., 750 Main St., Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1940; A.M., 1946.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth Newman, April z4, 1943. CHILDREN: Mabel O. C., March 14,
1944; Edward G. C, 2d, Aug. 8, 1946, Andrew C. C., May 10, 1951;
Margaret E. C., Jan. 31, 1953; Richard W. C,, July 24, 1954; Mary L. C,
Aug. 29, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Staff assistant, Education Department, Polaroid Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Elementary School Investigating Committee, Marsh-
field, 1963-64; member, Marshfield Republican Town Committee, since
1962. ,

STUDIED comparative philology (Germanic) at the Graduate
School of Arts and Sciences, 1940-41; left after Pearl Harbor; got
the A.M. in 1946. Served four years in the Army (Military In-
telligence): 1942-45, 1950-51, seventeen months in the ETO, during
World War II and Occupation. From 1946 to 1948, worked at an
insurance underwriting job in Boston, which I had held in 1942
between GSAS and the Army; spent 1948-50 in the auditing depart-
ment of a Boston bank. For six months in 1950, before the Army
called me up, I trawled in the Carib for groundfish out of Plymouth,
with a partner who, wiser than I, is still a commercial fisherman here
in Marshfield.

When I left the Army in 1951, I joined the Polaroid Corporation
in Cambridge, as plant security supervisor, and there I am, since
1961, in their education department. I hope to get the Doctorate in
Education at Commencement, 1965.

I haven’t voted for a Democrat since 1944, have lived in the same
house in Marshfield since 1949, and hope I never live in any other.

[ 360 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

If I live long enough, I may finish building it. Supply my other
prejudices, hobbies and convictions to match these and you won't
be far wrong.

GEORGE THOMAS DUFF

 

HOME appress: Yacht Tolaki, Hurricane Hole, Nassau, N.P., Bahama Islands.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Chief Pilot, Pan American Airways, Miami, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Cate School, Santa Barbara, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939.

MARRIED: Suzi Brewster, March 2, 1946 (divorced 1958); Laddia Whittier, 1962.
cuiLp: Christopher McKee, Jan. 8, 1948.

occupation: Airline pilot, captain, Boeing 707.

MEMBER OF: Book of the Month Club.

MY twenty-five years have been devoted almost entirely to travel

and I count myself among the fortunate few whose business is the

same as his hobby. I spend my vacations traveling and my days off

poking around, in whatever area I happen to be, on my forty-foot,

fifty-four-year-old Colin Archer ketch whenever, of course, I am

not on the wrong end of a monkey wrench or a sheet of sandpaper.
I have been with Pan American Airways since 1941 and have

flown their Atlantic, Pacific and Latin American routes. I flew the

Berlin corridors from 1959 to 1964 and lived pretty much all over

the continent. My son is in school in Switzerland. My wife and I

met in Kitzbuhel and were married in Aalsmeer, Holland. We

bought our old boat in Norway and have lived aboard her since

then, sailing her from Olso to Nassau with an eighteen-month ex-

cursion into the Mediterranean. Our crew is somewhat elastic but

at present consists of three French poodles, two Siamese cats and a

parrot.

[ 361 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

As to the future, we look forward to an early retirement and
jot more travel. The only trouble with the life of an airline pilc
is that he is never around any one place long enough to satisfy hi
curiosity, It is much the same as a performance by Gypsy Rose Le
— stimulating but not satisfying. So my wife and I hope to make :
long, leisurely return to the Mediterranean by way of Borneo witl
as Many stops as we hike for as long as we like. Then perhaps wel
be ready to settle down in a houseboat or maybe one of those
Steinbeck-ty pe campers. We were thinking the other day that there

are a lot of places we would like to revisit in Europe — places like
Kitzbuhel, where it would be very difficult to take a houseboat

AVERY DULLES

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Woodstock College, Woodstock, Md
PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn
YEARS IN COLLEGE:

> 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1940; PH.L
(Woodsteck Coll.), 1950; sa... ibid.)

, 1957; sto. (Gregorian Univ.,
Rome), 1960.
UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Watson Foster Dulles, m.3.a,, "37.

occupation: Professor of fundamental theology, Woodstock College, a sem-
inary for Jesuit aspirants to the priesthood,

Memper oF: Catholic Theological Society of America

PuBLicaTions: Princeps Concordiae, a study of Pico della Mirandola, Harvard
University Press, 1941; A Testimonial to Grace, Sheed & Ward, 1946; In-
troductory Metaphysics, in collaboration, Sheed & Ward, 1955; Apologetics

& the Biblical Christ, Newman Press, 1963; articles on theological subjects
for scholarly or semi-scholarly reviews.

HARVARD got me effectively oriented to my life work by provid-
ing me with the opportunity to study scholastic philosophy and

[ 362 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

theology and the religious controversies of the Renaissance period.
Some of these studies bore fruit in my undergraduate thesis on Pico
della Mirandola, which the Harvard University Press generously
published in 1941. From college I went on to Harvard Law School,
but when bombs began falling over Pearl Harbor my studies were
cut off and I found myself a commissioned officer in the Navy.
During my four and a half years of service 1 enjoyed a rather
interesting series of assignments in the Caribbean and Mediterranean
theatres. I did a certain amount of liaison work with the French
Navy and spent the final year as fleet personnel officer at the U.S.
Naval Headquarters in Naples. From Naples I returned in a hospital
plane with a case of polio, from which I recovered rather success-
fully in the next few months.

When separated from the Navy, I fulfilled a new ambition by
entering the Jesuit order as a novice at Poughkeepsie, New York.
During the ten years between my entrance (1946) and my ordination
(1956), I studied spirituality, philosophy and theology, and spent
two years (1951-53) teaching philosophy at Fordham University
in New York. After ordination I studied theology for another year
at Woodstock, Maryland, then went to Germany for a year of
ascetical studies and pastoral work, and finally to Rome for two
years of doctoral work in dogmatic theology. Only in the spring of
1960 was my academic formation complete. Since then I have been
teaching theology to Jesuits preparing for the priesthood at Wood-
stock. This gives me a chance to meditate out loud on such fascinat-
ing questions as the nature of revelation, the meaning of the Gospels,
the development of Catholic doctrine, etc. Woodstock is a relatively
secluded spot outside of Baltimore, but trips to Boston, New York,
Baltimore and Washington for lectures, conventions and the like
make it possible to keep somewhat in contact with the bustling world
and its concerns.

My experience over the past quarter of a century has brought
home to me the truth of a maxim from Aristotle and St. Thomas
which I first learned as a Harvard undergraduate: that it is more
difficult to learn about God than about anything else, but that a little
knowledge about divine things is of more value than a comprehen-
sive knowledge of trivialities. Is it not really the grains of heavenly
truth which have come man’s way which make human existence
tolerable and ultimately worth while?

L 353 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

DAVIS TOWNSEND DUNBAR, JR.

 

HOME appress: Pipersville, Pa,

OFFICE appress: Bethlehem Steel Co., Bethlehem, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MaraleD: Susan S. Prentice, Jan. 31, 1940. CHILDREN: Susan Selden, Aug. 1
1940 (2. Christopher D, Illick, June 9, 1962); Peter Townsend, March 2

1943; Charlotte Glenny, Feb. 20, 1945. eranpcuitp: Hilary S. Illick, Sep
15, 1964.

occupation: Financial department, Bethlehem Steel Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Saucon Valley Country Club, Beth
lehem, Pa.

THE preparation of a biographical sketch is, for me, something of
a challenge. I felt I needed a touchstone to get started, so I looked
up the transcript of my scholastic record. (All the rest of my
Harvard memorabilia, diploma, class book, etc., was destroyed when
our house burned down last year.) I was struck by one detail: the
past twenty-five years have all but erased from my memory the con-
tent of most of the courses which were listed in the transcript and
over which I had labored so assiduously.

It’s not that the intervening years have been so eventful or un-
usual, In fact, a recital of my recent history sounds just about as
close to a rut in the middle of the road as one can get: still working
for the same company; stil] married to the same girl, three children
(just about the US. average), one son-in-law and, just recently, one
grandchild, living on a “farm” in Bucks County, Pennsylvania,
where the existence of a swimming pool saved the main house from
complete destruction by fire; travel a little back and forth around
the country, once to Furope since the war, once to Mexico, and one
vacation cruise around South America; play modest amounts of golf

[ 364]

2§$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and tennis, but had to give up squash and bowling because of an un-
reliable sacroiliac; a tour of duty with the Navy in World War II,
a term on the vestry of our church, and limited association with
P.T.A.’s or parents’ activities at the various schools and colleges
attended by our children. That about does it.

Now we will look forward to the Class Reunion next June, and
start to wonder what there will be to say in a document such as
this twenty-five years from now.

BEVERLY CHARLES DUNN, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 76 Oxford St., Cambridge, Mass. 02138.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., #iagna cum laude, 1940; A-M., 1942;
PH.D., 1949.

MarriED: Ellen Butler, Aug. 18, 1945 (divorced 1954); Lesley Chapman Ger-
ould, Oct. 1, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Wyly Dunn, ’46, LL.B., ’50.

OccUPATION: Teaching and consulting in applied mathematics.

OFFICES HELD: Several in teaching and laboratory administration in universities
and industries in this area; president, Cambridge Chapter, Laymen’s
League, Unitarian-Universalist, 1962-64.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi; IEEE, Cambridge Boat Club.

PUBLICATIONS: A few in technical journals, or as reports to the Office of Naval
Research, on microwave phenomena.

IT’S been snowing for a long, long time. I feel buried — must get
out from under. Steady now, just keep working slowly upward.
This weight of little white flakes over me, I wonder if they" re still
coming down. What the heck are they, anyhow? They don’t feel
cold. Fight fiercely then — until the last white flake is past. Ah,

[ 365 ]

____|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

GEORGE SAMUEL DWORKIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 14 Chippewa Rd., Worcester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 265 Main St. Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1938. DEGREE: D.M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1942.

MarrieD: Ruth Fierer, June 21, 1942. CHILDREN: Marc Steven, Jan. 19, 1948,
Barry Reed, May 5, 1952.

occupation: Dentist. .

oFFices HELD: Chairman, Dental Health Committee, Worcester District Dental
Society, 1950, 1951; president, Alpha Omega Dental Fraternity of Worces-
ter, 1953-55, Worcester Dental Study Club, 1955-57; chairman, Legislature
Committee, Brotherhood Board, Temple Emanuel, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: Worcester District Dental Society; Massachusetts Dental Society;
American Dental Association; Alpha Omega Dental Fraternity, Harvard
Club of Worcester; Temple Emanuel, Worcester Dental Study Club;
Plane Association of Worcester; Worcester Art Museum; Jewish War
Veterans; Jewish Home for Aged; B'nai B'rith, Civic Music Association.

PuBLications: “Location of Root Canals Through Photography,” Journal of
the American Dental Association, August, 1957; “Tradition Is Breaking
the Dentist’s Back,” Journal of the American Dental Association, March,
1962; “Night Guards,” New York State Dental Journal, June-July, 1963.

TO compress twenty-five years of living into a few pages seems to
me a formidable task. War, death, birth, growth, all have their own
stories. What can be told seems to come out like skeletons of what
has happened.

After graduation from dental school and marriage in 1942, I in-
terned at Harlem Hospital in New York City for a short while and
then spent four years in the Army. First, a year at Fort Eustis,
Virginia, after that, overseas to England where I spent nine months
at a Quartermaster Depot in Kettering, Northam. Later, for six
months I toured the length and breadth of England with a con-

[ 370 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

verted London transport bus. The bus had been made into dental
offices with two chairs, X-ray, prosthetic lab and its own generator
attached to the rear. Ihe crew consisted of myself, another dental
officer and three enlisted men. We serviced Army units too small to
have their own dental officers. Next came duty in France and
Belgium. In February, 1946, returning on a small liberty ship, I was
seasick for two weeks and then land-sick for three days. The sight of
a sailing boat or rolling ship was enough to make me sick again.
There have not been any sea cruises for me!

Since then, building a dental practice and bringing up two sons
has been my lot. Although it may seem humdrum to many, the
practising and the further study of dentistry has been a fascinating
adventure to me. The newness, the ever-changing panorama of my
profession, has fulfilled my every expectation. The principles of art,
sculpturing, engineering, chemistry, metallurgy and medicine find a
place in my daily work. It is the work of creation whereby restoring
the mouth with jackets makes an unattractive woman see beauty
within herself, or a man enjoy eating or living again by means of
good artificial dentures.

The vagaries of human nature unfold endlessly. Boredom can
never exist. Dipping into the research of the malfunction of the
temporomandibular joint, | came up with a new principle of con-
trolling its problems by restoring vertical dimension and also alleviat-
ing clenching and night grinding. The answer was in a night guard
worn by the afflicted individual. All this excitement of daily life
makes me hope that I shall never have to retire!

DAVID CHURCH EATON

=
:
BS
ke
‘
fe
;
b

 

 

HOME ApprEss: 978 Pines Lake Drive, W., Wayne, N.J.
[371]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

orFice apprrss: Chandler Evans Corp., West Hartford, Conn.

prepared at: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

marriep: Ruth Eleanor Fielder, Nov. 13, 1943. cHitpreN: David Fielder, Oct.
4. 1946; Christopher Charles, June 16, 1939; Brian Foss, April 15, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Church Eaton, °38.

occuPaTion; Vice-president, Chandler Evans Corporation.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Aeronautics & Astronautics; Society of
Automotive Engineers, American Ordnance Association, New York Zoo-
logical Society.

HAVING reported with reasonable felicity the first twenty years

it is now only necessary to review the last five and summarize a

quarter century. The first can be done in a sentence. A quarter

century is a different matter entirely! I have not arrived as yet at a

perspective which permits a meaningful interpretation of such a span

of personal history. I like to think ‘that I am still growing, and still
learning. These twentv- five years have been tumultuous. Assess-
ment is less i important than navigating,

The last five vears have seen a continuation of my employment in
the aerospace industry. As of the end of January (1965), I shall be
employed as vice- president of the Chandler Evans Corporation in
West Hartford, Connecticut.

Throughout my early life I read Science Fiction and have even
written some. I enjoy the realities which are coming to pass and
look forward to a close view of the planets if only through a tele-
vision relay.

The experience of a growing family—also a continuing and
sometimes surprising experience — is the other major theme of those
twenty-five years. Our three boys have been and are all things good
and not so good. As different as winter and summer and alike in the
ways that all youngsters share. They are a source of worry and joy,
a puzzle and a window on a world we have forgotten about — and

overall a great satisfaction and promise. Could we do a better job of
bringing them up if we had it to do over again? I would like to
think so, but have a suspicion that successful parenthood stems more
from a vital affection than scholarship and that grandpa is really
disqualified by his own experience.

An epigram for these years since 1940:
Were I to have them back I would live them
as vigorously, as wisely and as joyfully
as I intend to live the next twenty-five,

[372]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN MARSHALL EATON, JR.

  

HOME apprEss: 15 Lang 5t., Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 13 Main St., Concord, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1949.

marrieD: Marie Chouten Gooding, July 15, 1950. cHitpREN: Edward Hayden,
July 17, 1951; Robert Gooding, Nov. 23, 1955.

occuPATIoN: Lawyer; sole practitioner; general practice.

OFFICES HELD: Representative in the General Court (Mass.), since 1955; mem-
ber, Town of Concord Finance Committee, 1951-55; captain, USNR,
since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, Boston and Middlesex County Bar Associations,
Concord Country Club; Rotary; Massachusetts Legislators Association;
Middlesex Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago my uncertainty as to choice of career
was shared, I suspect, by more than just a few of the sons of 1940.
Compounding the uncertainty, and common to all of us, was the
very real prospect of military service in the not too distant future.
My immediate dilemma was solved, if only temporarily, by cross-
ing the Charles and accepting a position with the old venerable
First National Bank of Boston. Eight months and a million or so
sorted and processed checks later I was rescued from this fate by
the Navy V7 program, narrowly escaping at the same time the
opportunity to elevate myself within the ranks of the Massachusetts
National Guard.

Five years in Naval Aviation followed, first on the ground and
eventually as a naval aviator, during which time I didn’t get shot
at too often. Many regard their military service as time lost from
their productive years, a feeling I do not share. I now consider
these years as affording the opportunity for the type of friendships

[ 373 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

LUCIEN EATON, JR.

  

snes: Vesper Circle, Mauldin, S.C. 29662.

press: United Merchants & Manufacturers, Inc., Greenville, S.C.

t: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

LLEGE: 1936-1938.

relen McCullough Daniel, Oct. 9, 1946. CHILDREN; Nancy Sutton,
953; Caroline Elizabeth, Dec. 25, 1957.

Textiles, fabric production; projects engineer — special Projects
work simplification, materials handling, plant layout in all ten
1¢ division.

fembership chairman, Minerals Beneficiation Division, AIMME,
e-president, Lions Club, Hayden-Winkelman, Ariz. 1956-57.
icty of Mayflower Descendants; Mauldin Improvement Asso-

“ift of Things” (editorial), Mining Engineering, October,
eatmnent of Ray Ore, co-author, November 1957,

t tiwenty-fi ve years has taken us into all the States

ty-five years ago. Among my favorites are the

ian States of North Carolina, Tennessee, and
their independent, forthright, and friendly
ossible reason, I found my wife there (or she

m Arizona around Tucson, Douglas, and up to
ortunity it offers to be non-civilized and {rect
(man is the only animal that worries, because
1a conscience that responds to convention of
Northern Minnesota for its wealth of almost

—neither money, nor birth, not educational
fluence of any consequence to the genet
> led us across the paths of some very it

people whom we cherish; a minister tn
-d fourteen churches When we met, who

370

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

later married us and kissed the bride before I did and who has been
known to preach on the subject of Job’s wife until the kerosene in
the church lamps ran out; an optometrist in Illinois who plays Lalo
and Mendelssohn on the fiddle and makes prize-winning salon photo-
graphs in the rest of his spare time; a chemical engineer in Ten-
nessee who swears he couldn’t pass freshman chemistry today and
yet manages to run the metallurgical department of a huge smelter;
a research chemist in Arizona who never finished high school but
who has contributed extraordinarily valuable new organic com-
pounds to the mining industry; a brilliant Turkish hydraulics
engineer (Ph.D.) who was a “trouble maker” until he found some-
one who could keep up with him and put him to work; a graduate
engineer in Minnesota who manages a sporting goods and industrial
rubber supply house, as often as not from an underslung porch in a
stack of truck tires. All these people have solved the terrible com-
promise of our time —how to put their own peculiar talents to
work; how to remain an individual inside society.

Work has been an equally kaleidoscopic experience: from mining
to construction, to machinery, to textiles, with a few side trips
between — but always helping to develop new methods, new tools,
new plants, and sometimes new products. The most satisfying, pro-
ductive, and advancing has been to work with the scientists on one
side and the engineers on the other, acting as a bridge of com-
munication between them and as organizer and director of the
design effort that makes production capability out of research re-
sults, This seems to be, even though I am neither scientist nor
engineer, the pattern of the way I am to make my contribution to
society and the future.

Of hobbies, I have more than there is time, space, or money to fol-
low as I would like to. Playing the piano is my relaxer, wood-
working in what is almost a production shop is the outlet for my
frustrations, and photography takes care of the creative artist in me.

Politically, I believe that the individual remains the entity in society
rather than the commune or state. The acceptance and encourage-
ment of the creative differences between individuals is a far greater
motive force than money. The urge to belong is better satisfied on
a teamwork basis than on a herd basis: individuals are different and,
therefore, find it more satisfying and profitable to be a member of a
team than robots do to be one component of the herd.

As for religion, I have my own — proven in the fire and quite
satisfying to me but quite unsatisfactory to the church because of

[377]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

its avoidance of institucionalism. Officially, I am an Episcopalian; to
paraphrase William Allen White, that is the one |] stay away from.

Altogether, these years have been a war for progress as I see it
without relinquishing either pride or privacy. It has not been won,

nor either lost; and as in most wars even the main battles have been
largely indeterminate.

JOHN DURAND EDGERTON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4415 Volta Pl, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20007.

OFFICE apprEss: Harry Diamond Laboratories, Army Materiel Command, Wash-
ington, D.C. 20438.

PREPARED aT: Westtown School, Westtown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREE: LL.B. cum laude (George Washington
Univ.), 1947.

marriep: Mildred Hester, Sept. 28, 1957.

occuPATION: Government research and development; chief, Legal and Patent

Services Office, Harry Diamond Laboratories (U.S. Army Materiel Com-
mand); patent lawyer.

MEMBER OF: Federal Bar Association, Government Patent Lawyers Association;

Armed Forces Management Association; American Patent Lawyers Asso-

ciation; American Bar Association, Bar Association of the District of
Columbia; All Souls Church (Unitarian), Washington, D.C. .

WAS at Harvard only one year, as a freshman. Despite this limited
identification with college and class, I do value the associations and
enjoy being kept on lists. Left Harvard in good standing (on Group
Il of Dean’s List). Worked for a year, Attended Cornell (on
Telluride Association scholarship), University of California (Berke-
ley), and George Washington University, Graduated number two
in class of forty from George Washington Law School. In govern-
ment service since 1948, mostly as patent lawyer and legal officer for

[ 378]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a 1400-man Army research and development laboratory. Am philo-
sophically favorable to government service and, despite rather heavy
workload and long hours, enjoy day-to-day demands, use of skills,
and opportunity to help optimize operations in one component of a
vast and apparently necessary enterprise.

As for outlook on life and the world, I seem to believe in, inter
alia, (1) the essentially spiritual nature of man, (2) the primacy and
moral responsibility of the individual, (3) the desirability of cross-
cultural goodwill and understanding, (4) the importance of con-
serving and building on what I perceive as the true values of country,
culture and civilization, and (5) a moderate, constructive, creative
and hopeful approach to national and world problems. Have become
active in the Unitarian Church. Was a warm admirer of President
Kennedy, whom I never met.

JOSEPH HENRY BEALE EDWARDS

 

HOME appress: Wilsondale Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE aDpREsS: Bingham, Dana & Gould, 1 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Western High School, Washington, D.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LL.B. 1943 (47).

MARRIED: Patricia Mills Fisher, June 6, 1942 (divorced 1963); Mary (Ashley)
Watson, Sept. 10, 1964. CHILDREN: Patricia Mills, March 29, 1943 (21. Jo-
seph S. Anderson, Jr., Aug. 4, 1962); Frances Elizabeth, April 19, 1947;
Sarah, Dec. 24, 1948; Judith Stayton Watson, Jan. 14, 1947 (stepdaughter);
Anne Ludlow Watson, July 1, 1950 (stepdaughter), cGRANpcHILD: Joseph
S. Anderson, 3d, Aug. 1, 1963.

HARVARD BROTHERS: James King Edwards, LL.B. ’52; Thomas Day Edwards, ’53,
LL.B, °58.

occupaTION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member of various Town Committees, Town of Dover, Mass.
1950-56; member, Dover Republican Town Committee, 1952-60; member, |

[379]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ALBERT EISEMANN, II

 

MAILING AbpREss: Proctor Street, Manchester, Mass

CALVIN HAYES ELLIOTT

 

HOME Appress: Pinedale, Wyo.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.1
HOME appress: Pinedale, Wyo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1940; B.v. (Virginia The-
ological Seminary), 1943.
UN MARRIED.

occuPATioN: Priest of the Episcopal Church
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

HERE in one of the fast-disappearing frontiers of western United
States, in a town that is very small (yet horseless by local ordinance),

I conjure up Harvard's undergraduate years as providential for me in
their seemingly impertinence for life as a Christian domestic mis-
sionary — which I, an Episcopalian priest, am in Wyoming

[ 382 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Today in 1964 I am certain that the freely offered excursions into
the spheres of culture, as offered by Harvard, did inject an antidote
to the centrifugal confusion spawned by our ever-hastening pace of
living and ideas today. To know something about a field of in-
tellectual discipline such as mathematics, history, physics, languages,
fine arts, government, music, sociology, et al. — to enjoy the society
of clubs, parties, friends, foreigners, and professors acquaints a grow-
ing personality with the many facets of life in our galaxy. The
challenge to assume some self-regulation in the pursuit in this quest
of knowledge does prepare a person for the advent of disciplined,
responsible, and productive living potentiated with a promise of his
adding a bit to the benefit of the human race.

So, it happened that Harvard led me up to the mental abyss with
its choice of being, or not, bridged with the stuff of Faith. Con-
sequently, I entered the Virginia Theological Seminary upon gradua-
tion from Harvard. Soon after ordination, the Navy accepted my
efforts during World War II as a chaplain with the Marines. Out of
service and back in for Korea, I found, as expressed in a letter writ-
ten to the Alumni News in the ’4os, that insofar as I could discover,
the “sense” of things is as important as the visible presence of them;
that understanding is more than the sum total of the parts of any
system of thought (and its outward tangibility). Or: the spiritual is
of essence to the material. The idea precludes the things. This
cropped up constantly during the military duty of which I was
privileged to be part.

As a result of exploring various areas of the world with the Navy
and discovering the rich realm of people and their motivations and
spiritual needs and resources through these years, I now in 1964 am
that Christian domestic missionary this all started with.

Out here I find echoes of Harvard days, i.e., the “tradition” here
is rugged individualism and self-reliance and expression. There is
skepticism about anything “unknown” (but here small yen to ex-
plore it!). The wonder, the majesty, the force, and the beauty of
God’s nature in mountain and plain and beast do humble a man.
People here do go out and “sense” God (especially on Sunday
mornings when I conduct church services).

However, knowledge can free one. And we try to introduce
knowledge (not sectarian) and hope for its indigenous pursuit. You
certainly can’t make a horse drink (that I know for I j just acquired a
mare). You can, however, in this life set out a fare with (perhaps

[ 383 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

locally unfamiliar) foods which, when and if sampled, are found to
be delicious, adventuresome, and real.

Perhaps a few of us in the Class have misdirected the knowledge
we gained at Harvard for purposes other than the enrichment and
comprehension of mankind. 1 don’t know, but it wouldn’t destroy
the truth. I am humbled to be a “no-horse town” part of the Class
of 1940 which has done and is doing so much for the benefit of
nation and world, for the freedom of intellectual pursuit, and for the
repoining of the material and the spiritual,

CHARLES EDSON ENNIS

so ner ayer eas ee aR NEEM ARY aN

     

PRM OE TERE TOL Rte SNORE AA LON ORME ION. |

 

HOME appress: 29 Bear St., Lyons, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 76 William St., Lyons, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lyons High School, Lyons, N.Y,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LL.B. (Cornell Univ.), 1948.

Marrigp: Jean Marion Murray Bisset, April 30, 1946. cuiLpren: Kathleen Rock-

wood, July 15, 1947; Charles David Murray, Sept. 3, 1949; Edson Taft, July
20, 1952; Mary Brinkley, May 2, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Ennis, ’32, M.D., "36.

occuPaATiIoN: Lawyer; independent general practitioner.

OFFICES HELD: President, Wayne County Bar Association, 1960; Master, Hu-
manity Lodge No. 406, F. & A.M., 1960; Wayne County Committeeman,
Democratic Party, past ten years, delegate to Judicial Convention, on
several occasions; alternate delegate to State Convention, 1962, 1964.

MEMBER OF: Humanity Lodge No. 406, F. & A.M.; Lyons Lodge No. 869,
BPOE,, Collins-Cassavino Post No. 227, American Legion; life member,

Lyons Memorial Post No. 5029, Veterans of Foreign Wars; Harvard Club
of Rochester.

OUR Class has had so many Reports — the Sixth, Tenth, Fifteenth,
and Twentieth — that | am sure that each of us knows the records,

[ 384 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

careers and the like of the others. And so it should be. The Class
of 1940, like the Class of 1860 and 1914 before it, is a special kind of
Class, coming as it did at the close of one era and the beginning of
another.

At the risk of repetition, therefore, I state that I entered Cornell
Law School in the fall of i940, completed the first year, started the
second year, and in the fall of 1941 enlisted in the Canadian Army in
_ which I served in the Royal Canadian Artillery until August, 1946.
I was a lieutenant upon my discharge, having enlisted as a private or
gunner, and having completed an Officers Training School conducted
by the British Royal Artillery at Catterick, in Yorkshire, England.
In the course of my stay in Great Britain I met my wife in northern
Scotland, where she was serving as an ambulance driver in the A.T'S.,
Scottish Command, British Army.

Upon discharge from the Army I returned to Cornell Law School
from which I was graduated in 1948, our first daughter having been
born during that period. Thereafter I embarked upon the practice
of law in the village in which I was brought up and have been at it
ever since. My practice is general and varied.

Our time is devoted to our four children, reading, gardening, care
of our old house and large barn and, I suppose, the press of local
civic causes. The Democratic Party occupies a certain degree of
our time and attention as well.

The world upon which our Class looked in 1940 was more simple
than the one in which we now find ourselves. Then the answers were
readily at hand, or so it seemed; now the easy answer is the exception
rather than the rule. This despite the fact that presumably we are |
now older and wiser. I certainly am older and, I sometimes think,
wiser.

L 385 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

+s HENRY NICHOLS ERVIN

 

BorN: Oct. 21, 1918, San Diego, Calif. parents: Robert Gilpin Ervin, 713,
Frances Nichols.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940(41).

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Gilpin Ervin, Jr., °38.

pIED: Lost in action, Jan. 13, 1943, in the Pacific Ocean.

IN December, 1940, Ervin joined the Navy and received his wings
in September, 1941. After advanced carrier training he was as-
signed to the USS Yorktown, serving throughout its epic career in
the Pacific. When the Yorktown was sunk in the Battle of Midway,
he was assigned as a dive-bomber pilot to Squadron 10 on the
Enterprise. He was awarded the Air Medal and cited by Admiral
Halsey for his performance during the Battle of Santa Cruz. Ervin
continued his active duty aboard the Enterprise until reported
missing in action on January 13, 1943, after action in the Pacific,
and later officially presumed dead. He was survived by his parents
and a brother.

[ 386 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERICK REED ESTABROOK, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 797 High St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE appREss: Brook Molding Corp., 30 Industrial Way, Norwood, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Avon Old Farms School, Avon, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

MARRIED: Nancy Vogel, July 3, 1942. CHILDREN: Frederick Reed, 3d, May 31,
1944; Virginia Vogel, May 13, 1945; Leslie Bullivant, Feb. 15, 1953.

OCCUPATION: President, Brook Molding Corporation, custom molding of indus-
trial plastics,

OFFICES HELD: Sales engineer, sales manager, vice-president, vice-president and
general manager, Northern Industrial Chemical Company, 1940-55; pres-
ident, Brook Molding Corporation, since 1955; president, board of
directors, Avon Old Farms School, since February 1, 1965. .

MEMBER OF: Owl] Club; Dedham Polo & Country Club; Society of Plastics En-
gineers.

WHEN I left college after my freshman year I became engaged to
the molding end of the plastics industry, and Nancy has threatened
to sue for bigamy ever since. Injuries kept me out of the Air Force
until 1943, and thereafter I spent two and a half years being trained
as a bomber pilot. With no overseas duty and a highly expensive
education, I was discharged as the oldest living second lieutenant to
return home. Co

I’m now president of Brook Molding Corporation in Norwood,
which we formed in 1955, and Nancy, in desperation, has started
her own business, Starbrook Selections. We meet once in a while.
Son Reed is in his second year at Rhode Island School of Design
(architecture), and daughter Gigi, independent, is living in Cam-
bridge, working in the computer field. Leslie is at Beaver, keeps
house for her parents and really enjoys life.

I have been mildly active in Dedham town affairs, have been on

[ 387 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

the board of directors of Avon Old Farms School for many years,
play some tennis, less golf, love to cruise, am an amateur builder and,
at last, have acquired my very own sanctum sanctorum, a collier-
type workshop.

Life is pleasant, hectic and full of major and minor problems over
which I seem to have little or no control.

HENRY EDWARD CLAY EVERETT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 621 Humboldt Pkwy., Buffalo, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 163 Broadway, Buffalo, N.Y.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Lincoln University, Lincoln University, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1938-1940. DEGREES: §.B. 1940; Mo. (Univ. of Michigan),
1944.

MarrieD: Harriette Hamilton Hardy, Dec. 23, 1944. CHILDREN: Harriette

Evonne, Dec. 31, 1945; Henry Edward Clay, Jr, Oct. 17, 1947; Arthur
Benjamin, Jan. 29, 1950; Evette Valerie, Aug. 12, 1957.
OCCUPATION: Private practice of surgery.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery (diplomate 1957); American College
of Surgeons (fellow 1960); Medical Societies of Erie County and New
York State; American Medical Association.

IN 1944 I had a rotating internship at Cleveland City Hospital, fol-
lowed by a residency in general surgery at Freedman’s Hospital at
Howard University Medical School in Washington, D.C., from
1944 to 1947. The following years were spent in Columbia, South
Carolina, where I was engaged in private practice of medicine with
specialization in surgery.

The Air Force claimed me from 1953 to 1955, as a captain in the
Medical Corps, with assignment overseas at Burderop Park USAF

Hospital, England. The family accompanied me and we saw all of
Europe at Uncle Sam’s expense. °

[ 388 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After discharge from the Air Force, my senior surgical residency
was served at Roswell Park Memorial Institute in Buffalo, New
York, from 1955 to 1957, where I also did some cancer research. At
present I am in private practice of surgery in Buffalo, with appoint-
ments on surgical staffs at Roswell Park Memorial Institute, Deacon-
ess Hospital, Children’s Hospital, Columbus Hospital, Emergency
Hospital, Millard Fillmore Hospital and Kenmore Mercy Hospital.

ROBERT HEGGE FAGERLAND

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2776 Adrian St., San Diego, Calif. 92110.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of the Navy, Washington 25, D.C,
PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938, 1939-1941. DEGREE: A.B., 1940(41).
MARRIED: Olive Howard, Sept. 17, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Commander, U.S. Navy, Retired.

I RETIRED from the U.S. Navy in September, 1964, after twenty-
three years of service in naval aviation in various billets at numerous

duty stations, last of which was comptroller, Naval Air Station,

Whidbey Island, Washington.
Presently, I am concentrating on my golf game and contemplat-
ing economic endeavor in 1965.

[ 389 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

FRANK JOSEPH FAHEY, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 5935 Rutgers Rd. La Jolla, Calif.

SAMUEL MEHARD FAHR

3
oe

*

Ok
aie aie aot Raa aes Cire

CAME ot Ria sia React Cott, BAP

  

HOME appress: 6 Knollwood Lane, Iowa City, Iowa.

orFice appress: College of Law, University of lowa, lowa City, Iowa.

PREPARED AT: Blake School, Minneapolis, Minn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1940; LL.B., 1943(47)+

MarrieD: Elizabeth Sheldon, Oct. 26, 1941. CHILDREN: Samuel Sheldon, Oct. 9,
1942; Nancy Templeton, Nov. 6, 1946; Edith Brooks, Oct. 11, 1948; Eliz-
abeth Caldwell, Sept. 20, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Professor of law, University of Iowa.

FOLLOWING graduation in 1940 I went to Harvard Law School
more or less because most of my class seemed to be doing so. How-
ever, I came to scoff but remained to pray. The war interrupted my
studies and I spent four years under the sea with the U.S. submarines

[ 390 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the area from Java and Borneo up to the Sea of Japan, the latter
the best shooting gallery that ever was.

Thereafter I returned to Cambridge and graduated. Following
practice in Minneapolis I came to teach at the College of Law at the
University of Iowa where I have been for fifteen years. I like the
work very much and find law school teaching in a changing world,
with intrusions from the behavioral and social sciences, not to speak
of a fine student body, makes life in the academy stimulating and
challenging.

Lately I have spent a good deal of time in Peru assisting the Peru-
vians in a program of agrarian land reform. This work is varied and
taxing, but exceedingly interesting and occasionally even satisfying.
I would like to think that in a few years our work in Peru will have
helped that fascinating country to move forward. Useful by-prod-
ucts have been travel through nontourist parts of Peru, contact with
charming though occasionally baffling people (of course, North
Americans are never frustrating) and the mystery of the Spanish
language of which I never spoke a word beyond Ole! before a few
years ago.

In 1941 I married the former Elizabeth Sheldon of Minneapolis and
lived happily ever after. I have four children: Samuel, a senior at
Columbia, and three daughters, Nancy, eighteen, Edith, sixteen, and
Elizabeth, fourteen.

My hobbies are hunting and fishing which I have pursued on two
continents. I also have developed an expensive interest in photog-
raphy.

I have absolutely no great thoughts about the state of the world
nor even about the state of Iowa in spite of Mr. Justice Holmes’
praise of generalizations. But I am very glad to have been a member
of the Class of 1940 and am surprised to discover how well many of
us seem to be doing in the world. Who would have thought it of
any of us?

[ 391 ]

. |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

RAYMOND FORREST FARWELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 723 Camino Amigo Rd., Danville, Calif.

OFFICE AppREss: John Muir Memorial Hospital, Walnut Creek, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarrieD: Leslye Jean Brown, Nov. 29, 1943. CHILDREN: Leslye Susanne, March
28, 1946; Michael Raymond, March 28, 1953; James Kirkpatrick, March
14, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Wells Farwell, 41.

occupation: Hospital administrator and consultant, administrator, John Muir
Memorial Hospital, a general non-profit community hospital under con-
struction in Walnut Creek, Calif.

orFices HELD: Member, House of Delegates, 1958-60, chairman, Committee on
Teen-age Volunteers in Hospitals, since 1962, American Hospital Asso-
ciation; vice-president, Association of Western Hospitals, 1960-62; trustee,
1955-1960, president, 1958-1959, Washington State Hospital Association,
member, Seattle YMCA Camps Committee, 1952-62, trustee, Washington
Hospital Service (Blue Cross), 1955-62.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of San Francisco, American College of Hospital
Administrators; American Hospital Association.

pusLications: Articles in professional journals,

TWO months and 3,000 miles out of Leverett House I enlisted in
the Navy’s V-7 (ninety-day wonder) program, having quickly for-
gotten the pacifist bravado which the occasional wine jug brought
forth from the roommates and me during the winter of 1939-40.
This led (after a few months in the Federal Civil Service) to four
years of seeing the war from several ships and a couple of Aleutian
bases, as well as to being shot at in a most unpacifistic way on
several occasions. Best of all, it led me in 1942 to steamy Miami
and the sunny brunette who has shared my perambulations ever
since,

[ 392 ]

REPRE TSH ADTEIE TEN Mie EIR AG, WY 3IFURER SIRNA AA TTA IES PRESEN a RTOS
ea ie Ms vee nat a)

APPR cheat ©. SN ata its teem artes Moet parekat ds Wate A co 9 teterty
Lae Seca Heme Pathan ties hg EM el gH ie ree gt eee EE

etna ge aetese mg VES TAY PEER aM MTR OE SO
sence teeta! ga ante acwtatle oa ath en ye a TS oe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Returning to Seattle in 1945, I fell by accident into the hands of
a hospital looking for an untrained “youngster” to work into its
management. We tried each other out. Within months— no,
weeks — the fatal fascination of this kind of work had trapped me,
and I’ve never been able to shake it off. Nine years later 1 moved
to a bigger job in the same city, and after eight more years of
seasoning we shifted to California in 1962.

Small-town living, we’ve decided after two years of it, is for us.
Our boys, city-bred as were we, are now a boisterous part of sub-
urbia. Instead of the mud from Pacific Northwest rain-slicked streets,
they and their animals track in a somehow cleaner debris from the
local creeks and frog ponds. Their schools are excellent (we are
told by the local dignitaries), but we can’t interpret the so-called
report cards, Taxes are astronomical and going higher, but the
Golden Gate is only a short hour away. My boat sits bleaching in
the backyard sun under the walnut trees, but some day for sure,
I'll get around to painting it, and maybe even put it into the water
once more.

Today’s project is the construction, staffing and organization of a
new community general hospital to serve a prodigiously expanding
population. It’s the acid test of one’s ingenuity and persistence, and
all of whatever know-how has been acquired over the short, busy
years. Political activities, both professionally and Republican-wise,
are necessarily in abeyance for the time being, but intellectual
vegetation is averted (at least partially) by regular pilgrimages to
professional meetings in Chicago and/or the east coast, as well as
by (rare) visits to the Florida and Washington relatives. Disneyland
is within easy striking distance, and so are the Sierras.

The hospital opens about a month before the festive Twenty-fifth.
For that reason, my regrets will probably have to represent me in
Cambridge on that occasion. See you at the Thirtieth.

[ 393 J

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1 940

RICHARD FAY

  

HOME ADDRESS: 339 Nahant Rd., Nahant, Mass.

OFFICE ADpRESS: U.S, Weather Bureau, Logan Airport, East Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940,

MarrieD: Shirley H. Small, Dec. 27, 1944. cumpren: Shirley H. Small, Jr., Jan.
16, 1946; Arthur Bowditch, June 26, 1948; Lawrence P., Nov. 20, 1961.

occupaTion: Meteorologist; research meteorologist, U.S. Weather Bureau.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Greater Boston Branch, 1961, member, Board for
Admissions, since 1962, American Meteorological Society.

MEMBER OF: American Meteorological Society.

pusLications: “A Note on the Mid-tropospheric Wind Maximum,” “Varia-
tions in European Climatic Temperature,” “Northbound Tropical Cyclone
— A Case History.”

AFTER four years at Harvard I found that meteorology was my
field of interest. As a result 1 went down the river to supplement my

education at M.LT., under the auspices of the U.S. Army. This _

began a more or less meandering life which started im...

St. John’s, Newfoundland, After hopping about from Texas to
Maine, I ended up as staff weather officer for the Newfoundland
Base Command. Most important development was meeting my

future wife here. A most friendly city with wonderfully nearby

salmon and trout fishing. From here to

Manchester, New Hampshire, where we went through the birth
of a daughter and the tearful joy of V-E and V-J Days. After the
war I went to work for American Overseas Airlines which took us
to

New York City fora year. By a series of unexpected coincidences
we ended up in an enormous apartment overlooking Central Park.
The real pleasure in living here was being able to entertain friends

[394 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and classmates who were cooped up in two-room walk-ups. All
good things come to an end and I was sent to

Limerick, Ireland, where I spent two years working at Shannon
Airport. In retrospect this was an entertaining and rewarding ex-
perience. At the time it was hell. Unexpected rationing and a dis-
mal climate made living a struggle, but it certainly leveled our senses
of values. Two years was enough, and after a short time doing re-
search at M.I.T., I went to

Washington, D.C., to work for the Air Force as a civilian. The
job was intriguing. We were always faced with problems, mostly
classified, which advances in technology forced upon the unsuspect-
ing meteorologist. However, eight years is now the limit for a
President in Washington, it was certainly the limit for me. I am a
New Englander and I can’t stand the tropics. So we returned to

Boston, or at least Falmouth (Massachusetts), for three years where

I was Weather Bureau representative at the Woods Hole Oceano-
graphic Institution. An unusual and casual atmosphere which, save
for the three summer months, was delightful. The job was closed and
I transferred to Logan Airport as research meteorologist for the
Weather Bureau where I have been for four years. This job is now
closed and I am due for still another move. Next stop. . .?

Ir has been an invigorating twenty-five years. The yo-yo of easy
living and rough, humor and tragedy, victories and defeats, has
mellowed into an appreciation of many facets of life which I never
even realized existed when I left college. The enjoyment of these
years could not have been possible without an understanding, patient
wife and enjoyable, resilient children.

[305]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ALBERT MORRIS FENSTER

 

HOME ADpREsS: 90 Brookline Ave., Albany, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Fenster Brothers— Fleishman, Inc., go State St., Albany, N.Y.

prePareD aT: Albany Academy, Albany, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Katherine Stein, June 5, 1942. CHILDREN: Nancy Katherine, Aug. 30,
1944; Alan Richard, Feb. 2, 1947; Mary Ann, Oct. 14, 1954.

occupation: Treasurer, general insurance agency.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1959, president, since 1963, Council of Community
Services; president, Albany Jewish Community Council, 1960-63; director,
Albany Boys Club, since 1948, Albany World Affairs Council, since 1958;
director and member, executive committee, Albany Community Chest,
since 1963; president, Eastern New York Chapter, Chartered Life Under-
writers, 1954.

MEMBER OF: Colonie Country Club; Harvard Club of Eastern New York.

A REVIEW of the past twenty-five years is a little like creating a

balance sheet of assets and liabilities which are not financial. Two

facts seem to stand out. The assets outweigh the liabilities, and
twenty- -five years is a shorter period of time looking backward than
it was looking forward.

Chief among the assets is a wife who views my foibles with toler-
ance and sy mpathy, and three children who are usually amused by
their father’s activities.

Our elder daughter is a junior at Cornell, following in her mother’s
footsteps, fascinated by economics and politics. Our son is a senior
in high school with the vision of a young man of that age brought
up in the Harvard influence. Our younger daughter is an enthusiast
about the activity of the moment, be it guitar playing or skiing.

I have been in the insurance business, running a general insurance
agency. Keeping up with the manifold changes in the industry

[ 396 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupies most of the working hours not devoted to commercial ac-
tivity.

I find myself involved in an ever-widening circle of communi
activities and responsibilities. As president of the Council of Com-
munity Services, I find the problems of planning and coordinatin
activities in the health and welfare field to be complicated by in-
sufficient resources. Progress is so slow that it is sometimes frustrat-
ing, but I am probably more optimistic now than I was twenty-five
years ago.

MASON FERNALD

  

       

2B

HOME apprEss: 1444 Old Gulph Rd., Villanova, Pa.

OFFICE AppREsS: Smith, Kline & French Laboratories, 1500 Spring Garden St.,
Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940,

MarRiIED: Helen P. Merriman, March 1, 1941. CHILDREN: Frances, June 29, 1943;
Corinna, Nov. 6, 1945; Eliot, July 8, 1950; Robert Heywood, Sept. 8, 1952.

CCCUPATION: Ethical pharmaceutical manufacturing; administrative director of
the research and development division, Smith, Kline & French Laboratories,

OFFICES HELD: President, The Radnor, Ithan and St. Davids Civic Association,
1952-53; member, board of managers, Alumni Society of the Episcopal
Academy, 1952-53; director, Women’s Hospital of Philadelphia, 1957; al-
ternate representative (for SK & F Labs.) to Industrial Research Institute,
Inc., 1964.

MEMBER oF: American Chemical Society; American Association for Advance-
ment of Science; Commercial Chemical Development Association; Na-
tional Conference on the Administration of Research; Harvard Clubs of
New York and Philadelphia; Mill Dam Club, Wayne, Pa.

WHEN one recovers from feelings of inadequacy brought on by
reading samples of exotic biographies supplied by the Class Secretary

[ 397 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

and stops to reflect on the past twenty-five years, they too seem
pretty exciting,

While plunging from Harvard into World War II along with my
classmates, I had the good fortune to plunge almost simultaneously
into one of the happiest of marriages. And the war soon found us
in a remote part of Texas where I was involved for the duration
with Monsanto Chemical Company in the manufacture of high ex-
plosives. Our family started to grow there, and three daughters fol-
lowed by a son have kept things humming ever since.

A round of Texas, TNT and rocket propellants was followed by
a vear and a half of selling chemicals in the wilds of N.Y.C. — from
the ridiculous to the sublime, or vice versa, as you will. But at least
the contrast was temendous. Then on to Philadelphia in 1947
where we have since lived in some of the country’s most beautiful
suburbs. The postwar years were filled with problems of land usage
and zoning regulations, and I soon found myself heavily involved,
through the medium of civic associations, in trying to preserve
residential areas from the encroachment of shopping centers, super
highways, etc. Blocking progress? Well, they won, but it has taken
a little longer because of the struggles,

Chemistry has been the main thread of my business life which has
ranged from production and engineering to sales, to new product
development, to research administration. Never really in the labora-
tory since the old days at Mallinckrodt, but happier outside and per-
haps better equipped, The past fifteen years have been spent with
Smith, Kline & French Laboratories in various research and develop-
ment administrative capacities, and it is hard to think of a pleasanter
or more stimulating afhliation. My job takes me to England several
times a year, and when not traveling, interesting scientists and busi-
ness associates stream in from all parts of the world.

My children seem like most of the others we meet — frequently
incomprehensible to me but surprisingly competent to cope with
this rapidly changing world. With the two eldest in college, one in
boarding school and one at my old alma mater we’re living on water
and hominy grits for a few years, but 1 hope they get something
comparable in today’s terms to what Harvard gave us all twenty-
five years ago. It certainly seems well worth the effort.

My views on the future are nearly always optimistic despite the

daily crises, I just wish we had a good liberal Republican candidate
to vote for in this 1964 election.

[ 398 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN JENNINGS FERNSLER

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 195 Green St., Cambridge 39, Mass. (Lost.)

BENJAMIN GREELEY FERRIS, JR.

 

HOME AppREss: Town House Road, Weston, Mass. 02193.

OFFICE apprEss: Harvard School of Public Health, 665 Huntington Ave., Bos-
ton, Mass.; University Health Services, 75 Mt. Auburn St. Cambridge,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; M.D., 1943.

MARRIED: Sarah Brooks Upham, Dec. 20, 1942. CHILDREN: Pamela Upham, Jan.
17, 1944; Margaret Upham, Radcliffe 67, March 12, 1945; Katherine
Wright, April 25, 1946; Patience Brooks, March 11, 1948; Sarah Elizabeth,
May 18, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Sumner Wright Ferris, M.B.A,, '48.

occuPATION: Associate professor of environmental health and safety, Harvard
School of Public Health; director, Division of Environmental Health and
Safety, University Health Services.

[ 399 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

orrices HELD: Chairman, Safety Committee, American Alpine Club, since 1953;
member, \Mounrain Leadership Committee, Appalachian Mountain Club,
since 1958, director, United Prison Association of Massachusetts, since
1963, Springfield Television and Broadcasting Corporation, 1964.

MEMBER OF: American Alpine Club, Appalachian Mountain Club; Harvard
Mountaineering Club, Swiss Alpine Club; Harvard Travellers Club; Nut-
tal Ornithological Club; American Public Health Association (fellow);
Harvard Club of Boston, Ski Club Hochgeberge; American Association
for the Advancement of Science; Sigma Xi; Delta Omega, American Phys-

iological Society; American College Health Association; International
Epidemiological Association,

pusLications: A number of scientific articles dealing with respiratory function
and the epidemiology of chronic respiratory diseases in workers and in

urban populations; a few articles in Journals dealing with mountaineering
concerning some of the climbs and trips accomplished.

AFTER graduation I attended Harvard Medical School and began
military service in the accelerated program in the last year.

Prior to the acceleration and during a summer vacation I went to
Alaska and participated in an expedition that made the first ascents
of two peaks in the Alaska Range (Mts. Hayes and Bagley). After
medical school I had an internship and an assistant residency in
medicine at the Children’s and Infants’ Hospital in Boston. Military
service claimed me again in the summer of 1945. I was sent to
Lawrence, Massachusetts, as a physiologic test officer for the Quar-
termaster Corps. Two relaxing years were spent there, climaxed by
another trip to Alaska where I was the test officer assigned by the
Quartermaster Corps to a Harvard Mountaincering Club expedition
to Mr. St. Elias in 1946. We made the second ascent by a new route.

I returned to the Children’s and Infants’ Hospital for a final year as
an assistant resident in medicine. By this time I had decided that the
practice of pediatrics was not to my liking. I enjoyed the children
but the parents were the major problem. As I became a parent from
time to time the reasons for this also became apparent. Therefore, I
elected to go into the field of research. My experience in the Army
had also stimulated me in this direction.

I came to the Harvard School of Public Health in the Depart-
ment of Physiology in 1948. I maintained my contacts with pedi-
atrics for a couple of years by helping to run the congenital syphilis

clinic at the Children’s and Infants’ Hospital. This was not a heavily
populated clinic because of the good preventive measures that had
been taken by the Commonwealth in earlier years. I have remained
at the School of Public Health doing teaching and research since
1948. I spent six months in India in sg51, with the Ludlow Jute

[ 400 J

La

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Company, studying the health of their native workers. This was a
most exciting experience and gave me a chance to visit a number of
cities in India that had whetted my wanderlust as a result of readin

Kipling. In addition to my work at the School of Public Health I
was responsible for the medical care of a number of persons in tank
respirators due to muscular paralysis from poliomyelitis. Most of
these patients were adults, even so my pediatric training was not
wasted. These individuals were challenging to care for and required
much ingenuity to develop equipment and devices to help in their
rehabilitation. As a result of this work with poliomyelitis I was sent
with Dr. Whittenberger to Buenos Aires to help and to advise the
Argentine physicians in their severe epidemic of 1956. I also had a
vacation in Europe interrupted briefly when I had to go to Pakistan
on a similar mission. In 1958 I Jeft the unit that cared for patients in
respirators and came to the University Health Services as Director
of Environmental Health and Safety. I continued at the School of
Public Health and found that the practical problems that needed
solving within the University in environmental health and safety
made good teaching material. Most persons do not look upon a uni-
versity as being an industry. In many ways it is. It has a product:
the educated individual. It has a wide range of processes in the
laboratories and throughout the university. They may not equal in
magnitude the processes in a specific industry but they do equal
and even excel most industries in their variety. My major concern
is that there does not seem to be sufficient time to do all the interesting

things that are available or to pursue all the stimulating educational
possibilities.

[ gor ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

+ WILLIAM MONROE FETCHER

 

BORN: Dec. 2, 1918, Winnetka, Il. parents: Edwin Stanton Fetcher, Margaret
Root.

PREPARED AT: New Trier Township High School, Winnetka, IIl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: S.B., cu laude, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Edwin Stanton Fetcher, Jr., "31.

piep: Killed in action, Nov. 13, 1942, in the Battle of the Solomon Islands,

AFTER graduation Fetcher entered the Naval Reserve as a mid-
shipman and on completion of his ensign course was transferred to
Annapolis where he completed his course in communications. In
December, 1941, he joined the USS Juneau and was promoted to
lieutenant (j.g.) while serving as communications officer on that
ship. The Juneau was sunk during the Battle of Guadalcanal and
Fetcher was declared killed by enemy action on November 13, 1942.
He was survived by his parents and a brother.

[ 402 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OTTO WILLIAM FICK, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 681 W. California Blvd., Pasadena, Calif,

GEORGE MAURICE FIRESTONE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2175 Grosse Ave., Santa Rosa, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1180 Montgomery Drive, Santa Rosa, Calif.

PREPARED AT: University High School, Minneapolis, Minn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S$.B., cum laude, 1940; M.p. (Univ. of
Minnesota), 1943.

MARRIED: Betty Ann Weiskopf, Dec. 22, 1943. CHILDREN: William A., June 12,
1946; Donald J., June 13, 1950; Robert M., Jan. 27, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Linn J, Firestone, LL.B., 739.

occupation: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Chief, Dept. of Medicine, 1951, 1955, chief of staff, 1957-58,
Sonoma County Hospital; chief, Dept. of Medicine, 1954, chief of staff,
1964, Santa Rosa Memorial Hospital; member, executive committee, So-
noma County Medical Society, 1950; Kiwanis Club, 1963, 1964; president,
Congregation Beth Ami, 1952, 1958, 1964.

MEMBER OF; Sonoma County Medical Society, Kiwanis Club, Sierra Club; AF.

[ 403 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940
& AM.; Tomales Bay Sailing Club; Medical Jeepsters of Sonoma County;

Farwest Ski Association.

LIFE since graduation seems to be a never-ending, always increasing
spiral of activity. After graduating from the University of Minnesota
Medical School in 1943. I took time out to get married and then
proceeded on to Chicago to fulfill internship commitments at Michael
Reese Hospital, while the wife’s salary paid for our apartment and
eats. The next stop was for a residency at the University of Utah
Medical School and hospital, where the pursuit of hematology and the
delights of sking were equally memorable.

Uncle Sam then pointed the all-secing finger, with the result that
I entered the employ of the Army of the United States, serving
faithfully on Long Island, at Carlisle Barracks, Pennsylvania, and
then at Camp Hood, Texas, where I achieved enough points to be-
come, once more, a civilian. So back to Minneapolis and two more
years of residency in internal medicine at the Veterans Hospital,
after which it was necessary to make a decision or two. ‘These re-
sulted in my being a people-doctor instead of a test-tube operator,
a westerner instead of an easterner, and an LMD instead of a Big City
Physician.

So here we are in Santa Rosa, California — in the part of the West
where trees grow and where there is still space between the in-
habitants. The family has expanded to include three sons and a
dachshund, and the six of us have acquired enough of the good
things of life to be reasonably content with our material position.

But material position seems less and less important as time goes on.
Of primary importance — and satisfaction — is observing and help-
ing in the development of the next generation, and especially our
contribution to it. At this writing, Bill, Don and Bob all seem to be

on the way to becoming “solid citizens,” and it looks like there will
be room for lots of these.

[ 404]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN RICHARD FISHER

 

HOME AppRESS: School Street, West Dennis, Mass.

OFFIcE ADpREss: U.S. Post Office, West Dennis, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1940.

MarRiED: Helen E. Cutter, Aug. 29, 1943. CHILDREN: Richard H., Dec. 3, 1946;
Nancy E., March 31, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Postmaster; partner in mail order business: “The Fishers of Cape

Cod.”

OFFICES HELD: President, 1960, currently treasurer, West Dennis Community
Church; member, recorder, Dennis Municipal Golf Course Building Com-
mittee (now in process of construction).

YOU get out of anything just about what you put into it — and I
certainly indulged in “zeros” all around when it came to my Harvard
experience. Yes, one accomplishment was noteworthy —I did at-
tain a degree of anonymity probably never before or since attained in
the long history of our school. Outside of a few guys in the math
department and in military science (especially those of the latter who
recall the Ethan Allen summer camp), I challenge any and all to
answer the question: “Who he?”

Like a somewhat tasteless and inedible sandwich, my immediate
postgraduate experience consisted of over five years in a monkey
suit for Uncle surrounded by two hitches with a Hartford insurance
company as a budding (?) actuary. I guess many of us partook of
similar unsavory fare.

I came abruptly to my senses, decided I'd much rather enjoy my
young growing family (and myself), packed them all up and moved
to Cape Cod to search out a more satisfactory destiny.

Life has been good to us down here. Real estate brokerage was my
own original personal goal in moving, For necessary variety, many

[ 405 ]

nen

- mv sisetiaciptecinr ne sh titanate Matalin: Ae NCacaeR ante eNNaNt  A,
aio te

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

other selling ventures were tried, the last one consisting of selling
myself as the postmaster of the village in which we live. As things
now stand, we are about to come full circle with the start of a ven-
ture called “The Fishers of Cape Cod” which is going to set the
world on fire in the mail order and allied fields.

My strong suit right along (and let's hope it goes on and on) is a
wonderfully sensible, understanding and loving wife. Our eldest,
also dubbed Richard, is a freshman at Trinity in Hartford, is a
sickly 6’ 3”, 210 Ibs., and has to fight off the football coach because
his first and only love is golf. A 3 handicap is testimony to the
dedication that love has spawned. His sister Nancy is a thirteen-year-
old beauty who is trving hard to outgrow the Beatles. Hope some-
thing human turns out to be substitute.

Two ambitions are mine in connection with the Harvard Class of
"yo: first, to get to know a few of you (having failed to do so in the
commuting days at school); second, to fulfill through the Class the
financial obligation I feel I owe the school.

ROBERT FLEISCHER

  

Us|

HOME AboRESS; 3712 Garfield St, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20007.

OFFICE ADDRESS: National Science Foundation, Washington, D.C, 20550.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, Riverdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: s.8., cum laude, 1940; A.M., 1947; PH.D-
1949.

MAkRiED: Avis Collins, June 14, 1942. CHitoreN: Martha Collins, Sept. 17, 19453
Warren Collins, April 7, 1947, Stephen Collins, July 7, 1951.

occupation: Government — science administrator, program director for solar-
terrestrial research, National Science Foundation,

orrices HELD: Professor of astronomy, Rensselaer Polytechnic Institute, 1946—-
63, treasurer, RP{ Chapter, American Association of University Professors,

[ 406 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1948-49; secretary, 1958-59, vice-president, 1959-60, president, 1960-61,
RPI Chapter, Society of the Sigma Xi.

MEMBER OF: American Astronomical Society, Astronomical Society of the
Pacific; Royal Astronomical Society of Canada; American Association for
the Advancement of Science; American Association of University Profes-
sors; Society of the Sigma Xi, International Scientific Radio Union; Dan-
forth Foundation (associate); P.T.A.; American Geophysical Union, In-
ternational Astronomical Union; Royal Astronomical Society, Harvard
Club of Washington, D.C.; American Meteorological Society (D.C. Chap-
ter); Cosmos Club.

puBLicaTIons: “On Becker’s Method of Color-Differences,” Astronomical
Journal, 1947; “On Spiral Arms—A Suggestion,” Publication of the As-
tronomical Society of the Pacific, 1954; “Parallax and Orbital Motion of
the Triple System Wolf,” from photographs taken with the 24-inch
Sproul Refractor, Astronomical Journal, 1957; “Variations in 18-Mega-
cycle Solar and Cosmic Noise,” Proceedings of the Paris Symposium on
Radio Astronomy, R. N. Bracewell, editor, Stanford University Press,
1959; “Quiet Sun Years Begin,” JEEE Spectrum, January, 1964; Patent
3,019,430, Distance-Measuring Apparatus and Method.

A QUARTER of a century is a big chunk of a lifetime and is more
than a percent of the interval from what is called the dawn of the
Christian era. In such a time, some noticeable impact should have
been made on the stream of civilization. Indeed it has by some of the
Class, but when I come to count my own contributions I find they
are relatively less than I hoped for back in iggo. Yet they are per-
haps greater than I had a right to expect. There is satisfaction in
having touched a number of lives, I hope constructively, and in
having learned a little about myself. I have a strong feeling that the
next quarter century will be more efficient, more rewarding, more
fun, and more significant. I feel as if I have learned how to begin.

More than once I have thought back and tried to assess what
specific things I learned at secondary school and at Harvard. Most
of the facts I deal with I’ve learned or re-learned in the last few years.
What I retain from the past training is method, outlook, emotional
orientation. These are tangibles, not listed in the catalog, not trace-
able to specific professors even (though one especially is a warm
friend to this day). Much of what I value from Harvard could be
traced to you, dear classmates, with whom I talked and next to
whom I worked, but from this distance it is all fused together and I
could not name names even if I wished to. There is an atmosphere
to a college, different in each one, which does the educating. The
work done by professors and students contributes to the atmosphere,
but is not alone sufficient to account for its essence.

[ 407 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

nography, the atmosphere of the earth, and the atmosphere of the sun
in which we are embedded, are rich in coming advances in under-
standing and in impact on human welfare. These are some of the
reasons I'm glad to be beginning in what I’m doing now.

Going back to see what I’ve omitted: During the early Fifties I
tried to be a part-time farmer, and the children were weaned on
Guernsey cream and fresh eggs. If they can survive the teens, they
will be assets to the country and not liabilities. I have traveled to
Moscow in one direction and Tokyo in the other, from Fairbanks
in the north to San Juan in the south, but have not yet been around
or below the Equator. Hobbies include camping, walking, cycling,
listening to music, plays, eating out, and photography a poor
runner-up. | have been an active member of the Society of Friends,

and have become more and more convinced of the reality of God,
but remain too self-centered to serve Him well.

THOMAS POATE FLEMING

 

HOME ADDRESS: 932 Pleasant St., Oak Park, Ill.; Indian Hills, Fontana, Wis.
OFFice appress: 111 W. Monroe St., Chicago, Hl.

PREPARED AT: Wheaton High School, Wheaton, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; AM. (Univ. of Texas), 1942.
MarRiED: Mary Carolyn Patterson, Sept. 14, 1945.
occupation: Stock broker.

member or: Harvard Club of Chicago; Stock Brokers Associates.

AFTER graduation and before military service, I acquired a Master’s
degree from the University of Texas, and spent a year as an econ-
omist with the Board of Economic Warfare in Washington. After
three years in the Army Air Force, 1 put on another uniform — the
gray flannel suit of the advertising clan, This was a prologue to my

[ 410 ]

Fe es Si bos

     

sah wets Houadisathy esas toutihcth Ee Cee

 

:
4

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

present and lengthening career as a stock broker. It is the finest field
for truly individual performance that I have found.

My wife and I divide our time between our house on Geneva Lake
in Wisconsin and our apartment in Oak Park, outside Chicago. For
recreation I play the organ, and travel as far afield as the jet age will
allow.

J am proud of the way our generation came into its own with the
election of our late classmate, John F. Kennedy, to the Presidency.
Any accomplishments of mine pale beside his, and I am content to
end these few lines on this note.

GEORGE MARSH FLINT, JR.

      

ge pated ‘iste, E a “om
. “* ch Ok ; e 2 >
x Bek oI eed : ’ if .

  

HOME ADDRESS: 10005 Coventry Way, Wildwood Hills, Bethesda, Md. 20034.

OFFICE apprEss: U.S. Geological Survey, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1940; LL.B. (George
Washington Univ.), 1945; LL.M. (ibid.), 1947.

MarriED: Esther Rolig, May 27, 1947. CHILDREN: George Marsh, 3d, June 1,
1958; Elizabeth Rolig, June 20, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Government service.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington; National Lawyers Club, American
Bar Association; Geological Society of Washington; Arctic Institute of
North America.

PusLications: U.S. Geological Survey publications on “Dougherty Asphalt
Area, Oklahoma,” 1944, “Sulfur Asphalt Area, Oklahoma,” 1945, “Copper
Deposits of Rush & Brown Mine and Venus Prospect, southeastern Alaska,”
1946; “Gypsum Deposits near Ivoukeen Cove, southeastern Alaska,” 1953,
“Some Zinc Lead Deposits of the Wrangell District,” 1953; George Wash-
ington Law Review, June 1943, Federal Informer Statute; “Islands of the
Bering Sea,” abstract, Proceedings of the Alaska Science Conference, June,
19573 “Islands of the Bering Sea in Landscapes of Alaska,” University of
California Press, 1958.

[41]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

HAVING spent the summers of 1940 and roq1 in field work with
the Geological Survey, I returned there in April, 1942, when their
war programs called for the increasing of their personnel several
fold and at the same time that full-time law studies were a peacetime
luxury, first as a geodetic engineer, then as a geologist, working in
Maine, Texas, Wyoming, Illinois, Oklahoma and Alaska. Between
field assignments I continued my law studies at George Washington
University, being admitted to the District of Columbia bar in Febru-
ary, 1945, and receiving my LL.B, in June of that year. “The summer
and fall were spent with the AAF as a photographer. The spring of
1946 found me back in Alaskan work with the Geological Survey
where I remained as assistant chief of thé Alaskan Geology Branch
and subsequently geologist in charge of the Washington Coordina-
tion and Liaison Office of the Alaska branch. Presently I am at-
tached to the office of the chief geologist.

Meantime other more interesting events have taken place: my mar-
riage in 1947 to Esther Rolig, receipt of my LL.B. degree from
George Washington University in 1953, admission to the Supreme
Court in 1960, and birth of two children, George, 3d, and Elizabeth,
in 1958 and 1960.

JOHN CHAPIN FOLSOM

 

HOME apprEss: 18 Indian Hill Rd., Saugatuck, Conn,

OFFICE ADDRESS: American Viscose Division, FMC Corp., 350 Fifth Ave., New
York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1936-1940. DEGREE: $.B., 1940.

marriep: Janis Thaxter, Sept. 7, 1946. cHiLpren: John Chapin, Jr., June 1,
1948; William Thaxter, Nov. 1, 1949; Jean C., Sept. 24, 1952; Peter Rufus,

L412 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

March 16, 1954; Susan Hooper, March 5, 1958; Timothy Thaxter, Nov. 16,
1960.

occupaTIon: Sales,

OFFICES HELD: Member, Representative Town Meeting, Westport, Conn., since
1959 (election 1965); various and sundry positions and titles at various
times in Cub Scouts, Little League, Fathers’ Club, Church School, charity
drives, Commuters Association, etc.

MEMBER OF: Diners’ Club.

THE last twenty-five years, while not uneventful, have not produced
any earth-shattering events worthy of entering in this Report. I]
now do truly regret that the University did not have “do-it-your-
self” courses for home-owners, especially those saddled with Vic-
torian vintage arks.

For hobbies —a little bit of tennis, boating, skiing and elbow-
bending are my main line of endeavor. Alas, women and song have
pretty much been relegated to the spectator sport category.

ELLIOT FORBES

 

HOME appress: 182 Brattle St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss: Music Bldg., Harvard University, Cambridge 38, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1941. DEGREES: A.B., 1940(41); A.M., 1947.

MARRIED: Kathleen Brooks Allen, June 7, 1941. CHILDREN: Diana, June 2, 1945;
Barbara Anne, Dec. 8, 1946; Susan, June 13, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Murray Forbes, ’32.

occuPATION: Fanny Peabody Professor of Music, Harvard University, con-
ductor, Harvard Glee Club and Radcliffe Choral Society.

OFFICES HELD: Teacher, Cate School, Santa Barbara, Calif. 1941-43, Belmont
Hill School, 1943-45; teaching fellow in Music Dept., Harvard University,
assistant conductor, Harvard Glee Club, 1945-47; assistant professor of
music, Princeton University, 1947-54; member, Harvard Summer School

[ 413 ]

nen elt MOE soteta
actschiea ere

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

faculty, toy, 19st; associate professor of music, Princeton University,
losg-shy professor of music, Harvard University, conductor, Harvard
Glee Club and Radcliffe Choral Society, since 1958.

mMemnex oF: Delphic Club; Signet Society; College Music Society; American
and International Musicological Society.

pusLications: “Harvard-Radclitfe Choral Series,” G. Schirmer, editor; Thayer’s

Life of Beethoven, revised and edired, Princeton University Press, 1964.
] REMEMBER in third grade our teacher asked us the well-known
question, “What w ould you like to be when you’re grown up?”
When I answered “Conductor,” everyone looked satisfied. They
were probably thinking of railroads, but I was thinking of music;
and I've been lucky to have singing and conducting as a central part
of mv life most of the time since because they are two of my great
loves.

I was allowed to take a five-year course of study at Harvard, so
that I got my degree in 1941, the same year that Kay and I were
married. Having been brought up in Cambridge with all my educa-
tion in the Boston area, the one thing I was sure of now was that we
should move and get some new points of view. This was solved by
my getting a job teaching (music and almost everything else) at the
Cate "School in Santa Barbara. When war broke out, my 4F classifica-
tion left me only with the hope of joining the Red Cross, but I was
rejected because of my age; so I continued in school teaching until
the end of the war.

Then I returned to get my Master’s at Harvard where I got some
more invaluable instruction from my principal teacher and former
tutor, Tillman Merritt. At the same time I renewed my association
with the Glee Club by becoming Woody’s assistant conductor.

At this point came a wonderful break; an offer to join the Prince-
ton Music Department. My first contact had been in the summer of
1942 when Roy Welch, truly the father of music at Princeton, had
asked me to conduct the Summer School Glee Club. The eleven
years at Princeton (1947-58) under first his leadership and then that
of the present chairman, Arthur Mendel, were very happy ones and
important in the development of our family. It was here that I de-
veloped the interest in Beethoven biography which led to the publica-

tion last year of a revised edition of Thayer's Life of Beethoven, by
the Princeton Press. Like Harvard, Princeton has the sound policy
of encouraging the rotation of teaching dutics among the staff for
those who will, in the interest of staying fresh; and I found there as

T have since at Harvard an inspiring group of colleagues with whom
to work,

[414 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

When in the early spring of 1958 I was asked to consider a return
to Harvard with half my time to be taken up with choral work, I
found it hard to resist. For while I had been conducting at Prince-
ton — five years with the Freshman Glee Club and two years with
the Senior —I did not have any ladies — that is, sopranos and altos,
The experience with joint music had been on a chamber level only
—madrigal group and church choir. So I came back with a fair
amount of trepidation to try to fill the enormous shoes of Woody.
Kay, after graduating from Vassar in music, had come to Radcliffe
for graduate study, at which time she had been Woody’s assistant
conductor for the Radcliffe Choral Society. It was in this choral
atmosphere that we met and fell in love. Now it is wonderful to be
in this work again with her; and on mixed tours she becomes a stal-
wart member of the alto section. So it was on last summer’s jaunt
with a group of ninety who took a five-week tour across the country
and north to Canada and Alaska. More striking still was the sum-
mer of 1961 when Kay was “Mother of us all” as she accompanied
fifty-nine members of the Glee Club in a nine-week tour around the
world.

To teach Harvard and Radcliffe students and to associate with
them in the fellowship that comes from singing together is to learn
one-self from the cream of teachers, one’s own students.

Learn what? I haven’t left much room for Peter’s call to supply
“social, political or religious convictions.” (Politically, I have been
an independent, voting Democrat for President five out of seven
times since we graduated.) But to get back, learn what? I hope that
I have been continuing to learn what the enjoyment of life can really
mean. This process comes from many sources: from the study of
music; from the general area of ideas explored with one’s colleagues,
relatives and friends, from family life, which includes for us not
only our three daughters, Di, Bar and Sue, but also their host of
friends who stream delightfully through the house; and finally from
being alone, say, in a sailboat, my favorite hobby, where I find
through a state of detachment that I get self-renewal most effec-
tively. At any rate, I find that the greatest continuing source of
happiness comes from communicating with people; and music
means as much to me as a medium for this activity as it does as a form
of art in its own right.

[415 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

RICHARD WARREN FORBES

 

HOME appress: 149 E. oth St, New York 16, N.Y.

oFFice aporess: Lever Bros. Co., Research & Development Division, 45 River
Rd., Edgewater, N.J.

preparED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass., Roxbury
Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; M.B.A., 1942.

occupation: Research associate, Lever Brothers Company R & D Center.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Harvard Business School Club of
New York; Museum of Modern Art, Metropolitan Opera and New York
Philharmonic (by subscription); St. Bartholomew's Community Club;
Country Dance Society; Crew of Schooner Chauve Souris,

PUBLICATIONS: Promotional and technical brochures on subjects such as indus-
trial chemicals and synthetic lubricants published by Barret Division of
Allied Chemical and (mostly) by Celanese Chemical Company, where I

was editor of technical literature.

THIS account is rendered at the last minute, up to which I have
waited on the vain chance that my life would take some remarkable
new direction sufficient to enhance the Class Report fittingly. At the
same time, I am happy and proud to be a Harvard man although I
don’t say much about it.

During the war I saw Southern France briefly as an enlisted man
in the Military Police. Since those days, I have lived principally in
New York State. I have worked for the Texas Company, Olin
Mathiesen, Allied Chemicals and Celanese, mainly in the field of
rechnical and promotional literature.

More recently, at Lever Brothers Company, 1 have become in-
-erested in new techniques for information services in the laboratory.
\s information officer, ] exchange research information with my
spposite numbers in the Unilever organization all over the world.

[ 416 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Locally, I am concerned with the improvement of technical reports
and information service..

I enjoy hi-fi music, sailing and home entertaining. As for family
life, there’s none of my own to report yet. However, let me say
“Hello” for my Dad to those of you who took chemistry in his
classes. Still a full-time chemist, he remembers many of you. I'll
have a success story for you in time. Until then, here are my best
wishes to my classmates for their own success and happiness!

EDMOND JOHN FORD, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 214 Bayridge, Corpus Christi, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1517 Wilson Tower, Corpus Christi, Texas.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., Cu7 laude, 1940; LL.B., 1948.

MARRIED: Marie Roberta Welder, Oct. 4, 1943. CHILDREN: Helen Power, Aug.
10, 1944; Grace Daly, Jan. 9, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John Berchmans Ford, ’36, LL.B., 40; William Dudley Ford,
30.

occupaTION: Attorney-at-law; ranching; oil and gas.

OFFICES HELD: President, Nueces County Bar Association, 1944, Corpus Christi
Country Club, 1956, Corpus Christi Pops Concert Association, 1956; tem-
porary District Judge, 1962; member, board of governors, Corpus Christi
Country Club, 1955-58, 1962-64; vice-president, Corpus Christi Symphony
Society, 1963; member, board of governors, United Fund, 1964.

MEMBER OF: Corpus Christi Country Club; Corpus Christi Yacht Club; Corpus
Christi Town Club; Beachcombers; Centuria; Harvard Club of Boston.

WHEN my father’s 25th Reunion Report volume came out I read
the autobiography of every member of the Class, appropriately
enough, on those dull days during the fall rainy season just prior to
returning to college. I found the reports tedious, factual and un-

[417]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

interesting with the exception of one which began approximately as
follows: “Aside from four years which I spent in a mental institution,
the four years that I passed at Harvard were the dullest four years of
my life.”

Inasmuch as | feel that, but for one of my four roommates and my
brother Bill, I knew no one at college well enough for any other
members of the Class to care particularly what manner of days and
nights have befallen me, I write what is hereinafter set out for the
sons of classmates wasting rainy days and for my one unnamed
roommate and for my brother Bill, wherever he is.

I pretermit the war (which I spent safely ensconced in Texas
teaching aviation cadets to fly — airplanes), my one marriage and
my two marriageable daughters and simply state that after what
seems an inordinately long time, the following financial success has
come tome. My father-in-law died.

As a result of that I became a cattle man. I am still puzzled by
that business, particularly since it appears that regardless of how
much feed and grass is ingested into the animals, they appear to pro-
duce nothing but red ink.

I have had a like success in the oil and gas business. I have drilled
enough dry holes to completely pulverize the Jurassic limestone and
to weaken substantially the lateral support afforded by the great State
of Texas to the great State of Oklahoma.

But my major concern, of course, has been the law — that jealous
mistress. As with other mistresses, I find that the outgo by reason
of repair and upkeep far exceeds the income by reason of outside
retail trade.

So there you have it. Except insofar as I owe it to my major
creditors, I owe all to Harvard. I am happy to leave it that way.

The questionnaire submitted to us stated rather presumptuously
that the Class wants to know about my career, my family, my travels,
my hobbies, my war record and my social, political and religious
convictions. It also requested that I be concise.

Ergo, at the Reunion, I will be the man standing alone, carrying
my golf clubs, wearing my scapular, surrounded by luggage with

two sets of European stickers, still wearing my Goldwater button
and totally pushed out of shape by life.

[418]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MURRAY FORREST FOSS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 6209 E. Halbert Rd., Bethesda, Md. 20034.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Office of Business Economics, U.S. Dept. of Commerce, Wash-
ington, D.C,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940.

MarriED: Anne M. Feldman, May 1, 1942. cuitpren: Daniel Karl, July 23,
1945; Forrest Robert, Sept. 11, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Jay Albert Foss, M.B.a., '49.

OCCUPATION: Economist; chief, Current Business Analysis Division, Office of
Business Economics; editor of OBE’s monthly magazine, Survey of Current
Business.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, United Jewish Appeal of Greater
Washington, Inc., since 1958.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; American Statistical Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “Factors Influencing the Realization of Recent Investment An-
ticipations,” 2957 Proceedings of the Business and Economic Statistics
Section, American Statistical Association; “The Structure and Realization
of Business Investment Anticipations,” with V. Natrella, The Quality and
Economic Significance of Anticipations Data, Princeton University Press
for the National Bureau of Economic Research, 1960; “Manufacturers’
Inventory and Sales Anticipations: A New Survey,” 1961 Proceedings of
the Business and Economic Statistics Section, American Statistical Asso-
ciation; “How Rigid Are Construction Costs During Recession?” Journal

of Business of the University of Chicago, July, 1961; “The Utilization of
Capital Equipment,” Survey of Current Business, June, 1963, numerous
other articles and contributions to the Survey.

PVE been employed as an economist in the Federal Government
since I left college. All but one of these years have been in Wash-
ington, the past eighteen in the Office of Business Economics (OBE)
of the Department of Commerce. The OBE, a rather small organiza-
tion engaged in economic and statistical research, is, among other

[419 ]

ereeeernenancaremnih

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

things, the producer of the national income and product accounts
its best known statistical product being the GNP

Since joming OBE I’ve had a number of different jobs; the most
enjoyable has involved research in the field of business investment
and business investment anticipations. Since 1961 P've been analyz-
ing current business conditions and serving as editor of our magazine,
the Survey of Current Business.

Outside of the job I can describe myself only as very inactive,
though for several months each year for the past decade or more
I've worked hard for the United Jewish Appeal. My wife (Rad-
cliffe °39) has been involved in many community activities, and as
a part-time employee of the American Jewish Congress has been
busily engaged in civil rights work in recent years. A brief, but
deeply moving experience, was my participation with my wife and
two sons, in the March on Washington in August, 1963. Our elder

bov, Daniel, is a sophomore at the University of Pennsylvania, our
other son, Forrest, is in the throes of applying to college.

RICHARD FLETCHER FOSS

 

HOME aporess: 174 Craigie St. Portland, Maine.
OFFICE abprREss: 117 Preble St. Portland, Maine.
preparep at: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MagriED: Suzanne Thompson, Sept. 2, 1939. cHtLpreN: Peter Thompson, May
30, 1941; Charles Sumner, March 7, 1943; Macy Fletcher, May 6, 195°-
occupation: Manufacturing chemist, president, Schlotterbeck & Foss Company
orrices HELD: President, First Parish Men’s Club, 1946, First Parish Societys

1958, 1959, 1960, trustee, First Parish Church of Pordand, Unitarian- Uni-

[ 420]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

versalist Church; president, Portland Club (Republican), 1958-59; treasurer,

Harvard Club of Maine, 1946, 1947, 1948.
MEMBER OF: Portland Club; Harvard Club of Maine.

WHAT does one write about after twenty-five years? Has it
really been that long? To look ahead a quarter of a century and
predict the changing scene in one’s life would surely be impossible
with any degree of detailed accuracy. And yet, here at the other
end of that span, looking back to graduation seems to cover such
a short time. Were it not for such telltales of age as the image in
the morning mirror, grown-up children, and accumulated memo-
rabilia, this would seem like a much younger Reunion year.

That time has passed so quickly would indicate a happy life
and such has been my good fortune. Heartaches, yes, disappoint-
ments, many. But a preponderance of happy times, good fellow-
ship and worthwhile challenges has prevailed to weave a strong
pattern of pleasant memories. To single out any one or a few
experiences from so many would be unrealistic. I prefer to report
my overall feeling for the past which is one of warmth and general
satisfaction.

If one word could be the key to the happiness of these twenty-five
years it would have to be “continuity” — same family, same business,
same friends, same church and community. Some would call this
kind of continuity dull, but to me it has been most enjoyable.
Within the framework of sameness nothing really remains un-
changed for very long. Through the trials, tribulations and fun of
raising a family there has rarely been a dull moment — exasperating
and terrifying, but never dull.

To the war on poverty at Deerfield and Harvard have been added
the names of Hebron Academy, Bowdoin, Colby, and the Uni-
versity of Maine. My oldest son Peter has joined us in the family
business, founded by his great-grandfather in 1866, which makes
the fourth generation in the company. His brother Charles is a
student at the University of Maine and hopes eventually to pursue
the career of medicine. Their sister Macy is now a freshman in
high school and at this point appears to be Harvard material. Time
will tell,

My business has usually been quite demanding with the develop-
ment of new lines and the shifting of emphasis as dictated in the
market place. Our major products today are food flavorings, salad
dressings, ice cream toppings and dairy syrups.

Home and family life have been high points for me. Sue and I

[421 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

rogether find gardening a most rewarding and satisfying hobby —
forever we seem to be planting or planning a new garden. We also
spend many happy hours at the bridge table with good friends —
our favorite indoor relaxation. In the out-of-doors I derive much
pleasure from an annual hunting trip in northern Maine with old
friends.

My church affiliation is First Parish Unitarian in Portland which
I] have been privileged to attend and serve. I have contributed
much time, thought and energy in behalf of our church and trust
that my efforts have been beneficial for the church as well as a most
rewarding experience for me. As regards the Portland Club,
America’s oldest Republican club, I feel that we have a great deal
more to do—I hope we may accomplish our task in the coming
four years.

At this point I can only say that I feel I have reached the grateful
age — grateful for good health, good home, good family and good
friends. I wouldn't ask for anything more!

EARL WINTON FOSTER

       
  
  

cL
:

‘|

eS a
*

 

hi noae GAA

HOME aporEss: 401 S. Miller St., Wenatchee, Wash.

OFFICE Appress: Seattle-First National Bank, Box 1021, Wenatchee, Wash.

PREPARED AT: Wenatchee High School, Wenatchee, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: $.B,, 1940; LL.B. (Univ. of Washington),
1947-

MaRRIED: Eloise Lear, Sept. 9, 1947. CHILDREN; Earl Standley, June 25, 1948;

Ronald Charles, Oct. 9, 1951; Cheryl Maurine, Aug. 13, 1952, David Win-
ton and Dorothy Kathleen (twins), June 16, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Bank crust officer.

ovvices HELD: Member, board of directors, Wenatchee School District, 1958-
64; board member, local YMCA, Kiwanis Club, member, Legislative Com-

[422 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mittee, Washington State School Directors Association; chairman, Legis-
lative Committee, Wenatchee Chamber of Commerce.
MEMBER OF: Washington State Bar Association; B.P.O.E. :

UNIVERSITY of Washington Law School, 1940-42, 1947- USS.
Army Signal Corps, 1942; discharged as first lieutenant, 1946. Law
practice, 1947-60, including position as deputy prosecuting attorney,
Spokane County, 1950-51. Trust officer, Seattle-First National
Bank, since 1960. Also involved in agriculture and agricultural
marketing.

I fear that our freedoms are endangered by the present concentra-
tion of political power. Our system works because we can periodi-
cally get the “‘ins” out. If the “ins” can continue to buy votes in-
directly, to control vast segments of the economy, to merge the
economic along with the political and military power and to hide
the facts from the people by “managing” the news, there is little
hope for periodic housecleaning by voters. Freedom of any sort
cannot exist without economic freedom. Economic freedom can-
not exist without private property. Without private property and
its free use, to illustrate, an opposition cannot be financed. Ex-
tremism begets extremism — the raging fear of foreign communism.
The national opposition has by its hysterical approach failed to show
the real danger.

FRANCIS EDGAR FOX

 

LAST KNOWN apprEss: West Side YMCA, 5 W. 63d St., New York, N.Y
10023. (Lost.) sees

[ 423 ]

nan,
ld ne

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

VICTOR FRANCIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2330 N.E. 33d St. Pompano Beach, Fla.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 2390 N. Federal Hwy., Pompano Beach, Fla.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938.
marrieD: Helene A. Apt, Dec. 24, 1942. CHILDREN: Wendy May, Jan. 2, toq4
(m. Mr. Hamilton). craxpcuitp: Tammy Sue Hamilton, Sept. 9, 1962.
HARVARD BROTHER: Cedric Errol Francis, ’37.
occupation: Automobile dealer.
MEMBER OF: Royal Palm Yacht & Country Club; Boca Raton Club.

++ GLENN FRANK, JR.

 

BorN; Dec. 7, 1918, Boston, Mass. parents: Glenn Frank, Mary Smith.
Preparep AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939.

pieD: Sept. 15, 1940, Green Bay, Wis.

GLENN FRANK, JR., spent three years with our Class and after
leaving college became a newspaper reporter on the Wisconsin

[424 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

State Journal at Madison. He and his father were killed in an auto-
mobile accident. Frank was survived by his mother.

PAUL LARRY FRANKEN

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 123 E, 37th St., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 200 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Beverly Hills High School, Beverly Hills, Calif.; Black Foxe
Academy, Hollywood, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: S.B,, 1940; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1948.

MaRRiED: Susanne Potter, Aug. 23, 1948 (divorced 1954).

occupation: Lawyer — member of firm.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant counsel to Governor, 1954; assistant director of Law
Enforcement Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor, 1955-
January 1, 1958; special consultant to New York State Senate Finance
Committee, 1958; to New York Department of Taxation, 1959-63; special
referee for Waterfront Commission of New York Harbor, since 1958;
Republican County Committeeman, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Players’ Club; Whooping Crane; Bar Association of the City of
New York; National Republican Club.

THE request for a narrative self-history of the past twenty-five
years sparked an immediate reaction of irritation and resentment,
followed, however, by one of mere apprehension. A flash-back
over the decades opens the door to self-appraisal, a matter of grave
misgiving. A quick and furtive glance is all I care to risk.

Shortly after graduation, I enlisted as a young innocent, thereby
starting, to my surprise, a five-year military hitch. New Guinea
rot, double bars on my chinos and chronic malaria were the result.

Upon discharge, I fell under the siren song of the G.l. Bill of
Rights and didn’t shake the spell until half-way through law school.

[425 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Having gone that far, I went the distance, and for the past seven-
teen vears have been a practising lawyer in New York City,

After a stint with a major firm, I spent five years with the gov-
ernment, part of that time serving as an assistant counsel to Governor
Dewey, and the major portion with a law enforcement agency. It
was a comfortable and acceptable life, being removed from the
deadly competitive area of private practice and yielding a sense of
satisfaction that is not always encountered in private practice.

Some seven years ago, I left the government and formed a small
firm with other ex-government lawyers. We starved at first but
gradually were at least able to supply the pot, if not the chicken,
expanded and then dissolved. I then participated in the formation
of my present law firm, a prestige office has given some satisfaction
to our respective egos, but is part and parcel of the constant strain
of concern with overhead. I sometimes think that a lawyers’ benevo-
lent association, somewhat akin to Alcoholics Anonymous, could
serve a useful function, sending its angels of mercy, armed with
tranquilizers, on midnight errands to soothe the feverish brows of
lawyers wrestling with the nightmare of overhead versus personal
life.

On the more personal side, 1 married immediately after law
school graduation and six years later the marriage ended in divorce.
I have had neither the heart nor drive to undertake a second try.
This Jeaves me in the position of the imaginative figure of the gay
bachelor in New York. This animal, of course, is as mythical as
the unicorn. I daresay for the past several years I lived a much
quieter life than my harness-broken counterparts, for once the
newly emerged bachelor revels in his freedom, the novelty passes
and he seeks a comfortable, unexciting habit pattern as do domestic
beasts.

As for hobbies, by instinct, I appear to be a collector, whether
it be rare books, old wines or guns. I have gone broke in the pur-
suit of all three and to this day an auction catalogue on any recent
interest will arouse acquisitive instincts beyond normal.

Any evaluation on my part of the past twenty-five years is
subjective, personal, and might not be entirely frank. I would not
like to repeat the period, not because of any sorrow or pain ex-
perienced, but because [ recognize that 1 would make the same
mistakes, follow the same will-o’-the wisp and end up with the
same query as to what the hell happened to those twenty-five years.

[ 426 ]

eee Be

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

VINTON FREEDLEY, JR.

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Pomfret, Conn.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.
MARRIED: Nancy A. Sears, April 14, 1941. CHILDREN: Vinton, 3d, Dec. 12, 1942;
Michael Sears, Oct. 4, 1945; John Middleton, Nov. 5, 1949; Adele Towle,

Dec. 12, 1953.
HARVARD SON: Vinton Freedley, 3d, ’65.

OCCUPATION: Sales.

FREDERICK BOLTE FRISCH

 

HOME ApprEss: 7 S. Dudley Ave., Ventnor City, N.J.; 110 Debaran Lane,

Rosemont, Pa.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 7 S. Dudley Ave., Ventnor City, N.J.; 888 Glenbrook Ave.,

Bryn Mawr, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Atlantic City High School, Atlantic City, N_J.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.D. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),

1943.

[ 427 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Marie: Betty Roulston, Aug. 11, 1947. CHILDREN: Frederick, 3d, April 24,
1949; Mary Louise and Barbara Ann (twins), Sept. 24, 1950; Linda Marshall,

Oct. 23, 1952; Paul Andrew, April 27, 1954; David Bruce, Nov. 14, 1955.
occupation: Ophthalmologist.

orrices HELD: Chief assistant surgeon, Wills Eye Hospital; chief of ophthal-
mology, Bryn Mawr Hospital, Shore Memorial Hospital; assistant ophthal-
mologist, Atlantic City Hospital, instructor in ophthalmology, Graduate
School of University of Pennsylvania; member, board of directors, St.
Leonard's Association of Ventnor City; commander, Absecon Island
Power Squadron, 1962-63, governing board member, since 1962, District
5 Officer, US. Power Squadrons.

MEMBER oF: American Medical Association, American Board of Ophthalmology
(diplomate); American Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology,
American College of Surgeons; Association of American Physicians and
Surgeons; National Medical Foundation for Eye Care; Pennsylvania Medi-
cal Society; New Jersey Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology;
Pennsylvania Medical Action Committee; Montgomery County and At-
lantic County Medical Societies, Main-Line Medical Society; Philadelphia
College of Physicians; Harvard Club of Philadelphia, Kiwanis Club of
Atlantic City; National Council of Yacht Clubs, U.S. Power Squadrons,
Ventnor Regatta Committee of Ventnor City.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific articles in my medical specialty.

AFTER twenty-five years my personal beliefs have changed but
little, 1 still believe in the dignity and hopes of the common and,
more particularly, the uncommon man. This feeling was probably
nurtured by service in college years to the Boys’ Clubs of America.
Feelings were strong then regarding the New Deal which gave the
common people little of lasting and true value. I shall never forget
attending a dedication of a new Boys’ Club in Boston. The im-
mediate ex-President of our United States was there as a humble
individual doing his job as he saw it. I believe, as he must have, that
doing one’s job as one sees best fit to do it as an individual is the
most important thing for our country and our world. It is true,
I believe, that “I shall pass through this world but once, any good
therefore that I can do” should be my main desire. Harvard has
shown me how to be an individual without being an echo.
Regarding my personal life, | was graduated from the University
of Pennsylvania School of Medicine in December of 1943. Post-
graduate education offered a chance to follow in my father’s steps
as an ophthalmologist by way of a fellowship in ophthalmology at
the University of Pennsylvania. I have been married for seventeen
years to a former nurse at Bryn Mawr Hospital, who becomes more
beautiful every year. We have six wonderful children who become
more challenging and more interesting each year. Three boys and

[428 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

three girls is pretty good planning even for an ophthalmologist. |
do not care if any of our children go to Harvard or to Radcliffe
but I do know my background and environment at Harvard make
it possible for me to say this and for them to decide.

Regarding special interests and diversions, I find that water skiing,
swimming and other water sports are my principal forms of relaxa-
tion. Because of these interests, I have become very active in the
United States Power Squadrons, an educational organization dedi-
cated to teaching safe boating and good seamanship on our water-
ways. In addition, Kiwanis and political activities help fill any
available free moments.

I believe God has given me the right to live a life dedicated
to others and this I must always treasure.

JOHN BAPTIST FRISOLI

     
  

 

soe Sen, a?
. - &
ef a a
fo 3
- : ‘ os .

 

TION IRD BIR eEIN, Nee annette Nem

 

HOME AND OFFICE AbprEss: St. Anthony Friary and Novitiate, Catskill, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; A.M., 1941.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Frank Joseph Frisoli, ’35.

occupaTION: Catholic priest in the Franciscan Order.

OFFICES HELD: Teacher, Christopher Columbus High School, Boston, 1948-49;
pastor, Sacred Heart Church, Palenville, N.Y., 1949-55; lector, St. Anthony
Seminary, Catskill, N.Y., 1949-55; guardian, Mt. Alvernia Seminary, Wap-
pingers Falls, N.Y., 1955-58; master of novices, St. Anthony Friary, 1958-
64.

AT times I feel I have joined forces with Rip Van Winkle. All but

one of my almost seventeen years of Catholic priesthood have been

spent here in the Hudson Valley. Nine of these have seen me settled
in Catskill, New York. From my window I get a full view of the Rip

[ 429 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Van Winkle bridge and then turn direction and gaze upon the sin-
uous form of the slumbering mountain.

In this mood time has treated me gently. However, I would not
say that [ have been permitted to sleep in my boots — or Franciscan
sandals. Dealing with a fresh batch of teens and twenties has kept
me very much awake and on the run. While not struggling or
splashing in the mainstream of life, I feel I am keenly in touch; the
mountain still comes to Mohammed.

Every year a new class of recruits comes to our novitiate straight
out of the world. An amazing thing is the wonderful diversity of
character of the young men w ho give religious life a try. The break
is sharp and decisive. Novices are cut off to a minimum of com-
munication with their families and the outside world. They are
plunged full force into a program of praver, study, work and recrea-
tion. It is always a surprising and inspiring experience to witness this
self-accepted ordeal.

In my position I become some kind of multiple-headed monster,
playing a combination role of parent, priest, teacher, gardener and
athletic director. I think the last is what keeps me on keel. I still
manage to get out there with my young companions in a session of
softball, tennis, basketball and hiking. It is getting harder all the time
but I won’t give them the satisfaction of retiring to the sidelines.

For my bit of wisdom I have this to offer. It strikes me that our
young men are enmeshed in so many crossed wires that they are
beset by a deep mental confusion. While not liking the painful proc-
ess, they are relieved to be unburdened and reduced to a few main
lines. They are willing to accept challenges and hardships provided
they have a clear goal to shoot at. They seem surprised and glad
to discover that there are lasting values ‘and a genuine meaning to
life. My greatest consolation is in working on such intimate and
basic terms with so many young people,

And now for some tennis!

[ 439 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THEODORE FROTHINGHAM, III

 

HOME ADDRESS: 110 East End Ave., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Chemical Bank New York Trust Co. 277 Park Ave. New
York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Genevieve Armand, May 4, 1946, Paris, France. cHiLp: Nancy G.,

March 16, 1948.
occupation: Banking; vice-president in charge of banking office, Chemical

Bank New York Trust Company.
MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, New York City.

[I SUPPOSE the twenty-five years about which we are speaking
can be divided into three parts with the first two roughly half the
length of the third.

After graduation I remained in the Boston area and worked for a
while for General Foods Corporation, after which I entered and
spent about a year at the Business School. I thoroughly enjoyed HBS
and am grateful that I had the chance to be a part of it at this time.

The war years found me in the Army in Press Censorship and I
was fortunate in my assignments which moved me from London to
Paris to Frankfurt. In 1946 I was discharged, found a job with the
Office of Foreign Liquidation in Paris and shortly thereafter Gen-
evieve and I were married and went to live in Neuilly sur Seine. By
the time we returned to the United States five years had passed and
it was fun to rediscover this country through Genevieve’s eyes and
those of our daughter Nancy. There now comes a brief period of
Boston living once again and employment in Everett at the Middle-
sex County National Bank.

About twelve years ago we moved to New York to be in what
seemed to us to be a bigger arena and entered a phase of living and

[ 431 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

working that I find challenging. Banking in this city is exCiting and
I plan to continue here. Currently I am located at 277 Park Avenue

in charge of the banking office on the ground floor of the Chemical
Bank New York Trust Company Building.

ARNOLD WOLFE FRUTKIN

 

HOME ADpRESS: 3702 Ingomar St N.W., Washington 15, D.C.

oFFice appress: National Aeronautics & Space Administration, Washington 25,
DC.

prepareD AT: A. B. Davis High School, Mount Vernon, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cut laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Nannette Helen Kahn, March 6, 1941. CHILDREN: Peter Arnold, May
19, 1946; Deborah Jane, March 8, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Leonard Baxter Frurkin, LL.B., ’33.

occupation: Government service; assistant administrator (International Af-
fairs), National Aeronautics & Space Administration.

OFFices HELD: Director, 1956, 1957, member of board, Bureau of National Af-
fairs; director of Public Affairs, 1957-59, deputy executive director, 1959,
US. National Committee for the International Geophysical Year, US.

Representative (acting) to United Nations Committee on the Peaceful
Uses of Outer Space, 1964.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.; Washington International

Club; American Institute of Aeronautics & Astronautics; West River Sail-
ing Club.

pustications: Numerous articles in magazines and journals on international

space matters; International Cooperation in Space, to be published in
spring, 1965, Prentice-Hall.

LIFE since college falls neatly into three periods. The first began
with a purely chance undergraduate concentration in labor relations
and carried through graduate work at Columbia, a year with the
U.S. Department of Labor, and twelve very long years with a

L432 ]

 

=
g
£
z.
g
=
¥
t
4
&
*&
f
3
z

_

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

private company in Washington dispensing objective expertise for
management and labor alike. A modest, continuing advancement in
this activity failed to compensate for a certain poverty of spirit in
the enterprise.

The second period, of course, was the war which sandwiched it-
self into the first period. Duty on an LST working up from
Guadalcanal to Munda, Vella Lavella, Bougainville, and other
dimly-remembered places brought with it standard ribbons and stars
(plus a Naval Unit Commendation of which [am very proud) but
no personal distinction. I learned a good deal more in the Navy
than at Harvard, though this was a function of the individual case
and no reflection on Harvard. In any event, I acquired an enormous
respect and fondness for the Navy and regret that travel and other
burdens have not allowed me to continue Reserve activities,

The third period brought a complete switch in carcers from labor
relations to what is called science administration, A total change in
career is interesting enough in itself but particularly so when it
means leaving a warm, safe niche for a strange field and a temporary
program — without the cushion of independent means. The change
was felicitous in every way, plunging me into a fascinating new
world, inherently more congenial, totally absorbing, rejuvenating.
As director of public affairs for the International Geophysical Year
in this country, | worked feverishly hard and increasingly enjoyed
the more substantive aspects of this most exciting undertaking. The
space research aspects of the IGY then provided an casy transition
to the new National Aeronautics and Space Adininistration and the
challenging task of developing programs of international coopera~
tion in this field, as well as supporting operational requirements
abroad.

Five years’ hard work by many devoted people has produced a
successful international program at NASA. (Examples: We have
already launched three valuable satellites engineered and financed
by the U.K. and Canada, have ten more under agreement with
various countries; the TV broadcasts to and from Europe which you
may have seen via satellite use ground stations contributed for the
purpose by European agencies under agreements negotiated as part
of this program.) The prime satisfaction has been the shaping of
a unique international effort based upon literal cooperation without
artificial dollar support. My abiding hope is that the merits of a
hardheaded approach to international cooperation with solid and
mutual content will become more widely appreciated and that the

[ 433]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

underlying philosophy will invade other international programs too

often merely notional or, worse, promotional,

A natural perquisite of international work is foreign travel, here
ranging from Argentina to Zanzibar, from one to a dozen trips per
year, from a one-day round trip to Paris to a fortnight in Geneva
or Florence. But business trips abroad will never substitute for vaca-
tions. I'm sure ['ve missed most of the things with which tourists
are all very familiar.

I can't begin to say much that is meaningful about my family. |
am awed by the fact that we shall be approaching our twenty-fifth
anniversary by the time this Report comes out. I’m not sure what
this takes but whatever it is it takes a lot of it. The rewards for
having brought a son and daughter thus far are many, including an
almost forgotten freedom or, more properly, release. I am con-
cerned that life seems to get tighter and tighter for the youngsters
without much of the pure time-wasting, fun-of-living I think we
remember. I should welcome some choice of career by my children

which gives them a future different from the office-bound, paper-
ridden, bureaucracy-loaded life (public or private makes no differ-
ence) that so many of us lead. However, rewarding as this life may
be, I've never gotten used to windows that don’t open, the need for
an infinity of concurrences, and the degree to which substance must
be sacrificed to appearances.

Like so many others, I find relief, renewal, pure pleasure in week-
end sailing. The smartest thing I think I've ever done was to buy a
tiny cruising sloop which I couldn’t afford. It has given us great joy
in the present and permitted us to dream of a bigger one in the
future.

There's been little time left for other things. The voracious read-
ing of the past has given way to a moderate distaste for generalized
intellectuation, fictional or otherwise. My professional hours are
spent in what seems to me very hard work, saturated with concern
for what makes bureaucracy work, agonizing over problems of
staff competence, executive understanding of hard program realities,
program appreciation of broad executive objectives, and so on.

My taste in these and other great matters tends to run toward the
concrete rather than the abstract. Very recently, the first vanguard
notions of a concrete retirement have glimmered on my horizon. If
I can ever manage it, I shall have no worries about adjusting to it.

[ 434 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM RUGGLES FRYE

 

HOME apprEss: 2 Tudor City Pl., New York, N.Y. 10017.
OFFICE ADDRESS: The World in Focus, Room 352, United Nations, New York,

N.Y.
PREPARED AT: North Quincy High School, North Quincy, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: $.B., cum laude, 1940.
MarRiED: Joan Bogert Ripperger, June 6, 1953. CHILDREN: John Randall, Sept.
28, 1955; Nancy Bogert, Oct. 9, 1959.
OCCUPATION: Newspaperman: syndicated columnist, diplomatic correspondent.
OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, UN Correspondents’ Association, 1955-56.
_MEMBER OF; UN Bridge Club, United Nations, Horseshoe Harbor Yacht Club,

Larchmont, N.Y.

PUBLICATIONS: A United Nations Peace Force, Oceana, 1957; contributor to
Arms Control, Disarmament and National Security, edited by Donald G.
Brennan, Braziller, 1961; numerous newspaper and magazine articles; cur-
rently doing book on Southern Africa for Brookings Institution, Washing-
ton, D.C.

JUST before the Korean War broke out, the Christian Science Moni-
tor named me chief of its United Nations news bureau, and sent me
to cover the diplomatic wars. I am still there, though no longer with
the Monitor. These past fifteen years have been spent dealing with
the secret diplomacy, the interminable public declamations and the
fascinating private lives of diplomats from more than 100 countries
as they struggled with Korea, Hungary-Suez, Lebanon, the Congo,
Viet Nam, Cyprus and many another crises. It has meant working the
hours UN people work—and when the utterly indefatigable Dag
Hammarskjold was around, they were formidable hours indeed.
(We used to say, during the Congo crisis, that “we work from 9 to
5 — A.M.”; and we often did just that.) It has meant knowing some
of the most brilliant and personable, as well as some of the most ob-
noxious, people in the world. I would not trade the profession of

[435 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

journalism for anything else I know of. And now (as of 1963) I
am my own boss, a self-syndicated columnist — a kind of poor man’s
Walter Lippmann — with my copy in seventy-five newspapers of
the United States and seven other countries. The column runs Sun-
davs, in most papers, and is known as “The World in Focus.” Some
of the subscribing editors also take a selective news service which |
offer called “The UN Today” — coverage of the 100 best diplomatic
news stories of the year, when and where they break. (If I can get
there.) This has meant travel pretty nearly everywhere in North
and South America, Europe, Africa and southern and eastern Asia —
though actually my life has not been as peripatetic as that may sound.
I spend perhaps one quarter to one third of my time traveling. In
the summer of 1964 I spent two tense and exhausting weeks in
Castro's sad Cuba, and before that, four months in southern Africa
—a trip which, by the time this Anniversary Report comes out,
should have produced a book for the Brookings Institution of Wash-
ington, D.C.

My profession was settled before leaving college. More than half
of my final year’s college expenses were paid writing news about the
University for the Monitor — at 35¢ an inch. The Monitor found,
soon thereafter, that my torrent of words was such as to make it
cheaper to put me on salary; and there ] stayed until 1963, except
for an interlude during the unpleasantness of 1941 to 1945, aS a war
correspondent and copy editor for the Army newspaper, The Stars
and Stripes, in Europe. In 1963 I resigned from the Monitor to give
my full time to syndication.

I have also dabbled in radio, television and lecturing, though this
has always been a sideline. The Carnegie Endowment for Inter-
national Peace commissioned me, after the Suez crisis, to do a study
of the first UN peace force (UNEF) and outline a method by which
the UN might develop more permanent peace-making “teeth.” The
result was the book, A United Nations Peace Force (Oceana, 1957).
For some reason or other, perhaps because of a streak of professional
masochism, I took a special interest in the intricate workings of
disarmament diplomacy, and this led, in 1961, to a chapter in the
book, Arms Control, Disarmament and National Security —a vol-
ume which the Book of the Month Club described as “the most im-
portant reading (it had) ever helped to distribute among the
American people.” The Deadline Club of New York (New York
chapter of Sigma Delta Chi) named me co-winner, in 1963, of its
award for “distinguished United Nations coverage” —an award

[ 436]

 

bi
t
i
t

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

much prized because it comes from men of the newspaper pro-
fession. The Overseas Press Club of America kicked in kindly with
a Citation in 1955.

I have paid a price for this opportunity to work with interesting
ideas. No Madison Avenue expense accounts, few worry-free
vacations (invariably a crisis breaks out as soon as I step up to the
first tee); living out of a suitcase; waving good-by to my family from
airports; enduring the heat, bad food, upside-down hours and frustra-
tions of travel in the underdeveloped world; and constantly work-
ing under one kind of pressure or another. I woke up at sunset in a
Karachi hotel, having flown in directly from New York, and asked
for breakfast. The waiter, a Moslem, greeted me effusively as an
Islamic brother. I was, he decided, observing Ramadan, then in
process (which requires the faithful to fast during daylight hours).
The public relations efficiency of one hotel organization was such
that, during a trip to Cairo for the opening of its latest skyscraper-
away-from-home, my then three-year-old son announced that his
Dad had gone for a cruise on the “Nile Hilton River.” Both of the
youngsters have learned enough geography to last them through
high school — and fervently wish I would stop giving them lessons.

It has rarely been boring — and this surely is one of the greatest
single gifts a good God can bestow.

JOHN NORRIS FULHAM, JR.

pore pete seen coun vo SPS

    

 

eo

. . BS
& Ss GS
Bana es

HOME ADDRESS: 64 Bristol Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: Estabrook & Co., 15 State St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1940,

Maretep: Margery Lillian Watson, June 5, 1948. cHitpren: John Norris, 3d,

[ 437 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

June 29, igyo; Mary Margaret, Sept. 4, 1951; Timothy Watson, Feb, 4,
1956; Daniel Watson, April 28, 1960; Martha, Nov, 13, 1961.

occupation: Investment banking — general partner.

oFFIcES HELD: Former president, Boston Fish Market Corporation, vice-presi-
dent, Maritime Corporation; director, Gorton's of Gloucester, Boston
Fish Market Corporation, LaTouraine Coffee Company, J. F. White Con-
tracting Company, Hendries, Inc.; former chairman, Massachusetts Cit-
zens For Kennedy, 1960; trustee, Center For the Aging, Kennedy Me-
morial Library; member, Massachusetts Board of Library Commissioners,
Examining Committee, Boston Public Library; trustee, Garfinkle Interest
— Boston Herald Traveler.

MEMBER OF: Eastern Yacht Club, Wellesley Councry Club.

AFTER graduation I worked in our family fishing business for
less than a year, joined the Navy, went to sea on a destroyer (USS
Strong DD467) in 1942. It was sunk in July, 1943, and by the
grace of the good Lord I survived, returned to the US. fitted
out the USS Norman Scott DD6go as first lieutenant which in its
turn was badly damaged at Tinian July, 1944. I served successively
on the staffs of Commander Destroyers Pacific Fleet and the Chief
of the Bureau of Naval Personnel until February, 1946. From 1946
until 1964, I actively engaged with other members of my family
in the development of the family fishing business with time out
for investing in other kinds of related activities. We merged the
fishing business (Fulham Brothers, Inc.) with Gorton’s of Glouces-
ter in January, 1964. I joined Estabrook & Company (investment
bankers) in June, 1964, and became a general partner December 1,
1964. I have retained interest in the fishing vessel and property busi-
ness with my older brother and worked with and for my younger
brother in many of his activities (La Touraine Coffee Company,
Friends Beans and others).

In 1948, I was married to Margery Lillian Watson and we have
five children listed above. Having come from a large happy family
to whom I was devoted and still am, 1 am joyful and grateful
beyond words for my lovely and sympathetic wife and my some-
times delightful children. I have always felt keenly, with T. S.
Eliot, a sense of oneness with the past and a sense of responsibility
for the future. So I have great joy in my wife and my family; and
while my business employments have kept me substantially engaged,
all the rest of my time has been happily passed with my family.

I have deep political convictions and even deeper religious ones.
As a fully engaged businessman, I am convinced that the progress
of the democracy and the progress of our economy are intimately

[ 438 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

related and depend to a great extent for their success on, first, a
compassionate view of all social problems, and second, on business-
men being deeply committed to and involved in the political process.
I am sure a democracy cannot be a dichotomy with all the business
people in one community and the others in another without failing.
Therefore, I am convinced that the businessman must fulfill his
responsibility to the government by becoming intimately involved
in the political process. More than this I am convinced that business-
men must understand the needs of the miserable and the unfortunate
and the sick in our democracy and must be responsive to these. I
believe further that businessmen must know that their role in the
economy and in the democracy is to increase the distribution of
goods for all. I believe that the role of the citizen-businessman
must be even broader. He must see himself not as the man who
has it made in his own “tribe” with the big salary, the options, the
pension plan, the cars in the garage and his children’s school bills
paid, but rather he must see himself in history as the heir to all
the culture which has produced him with a genuine responsibility
for achieving civic unity and building the future.

My religious convictions are really now deeper than ever before.
As a Roman Catholic (having been born one) I maintained with
no small amount of difficulty my deep convictions even in the
rather proud, freedom-seeking, agnostic climate of my under-
graduate days. I have had, through the years, great interest in
paintings which has extended to a renewed interest in history
focused for me in two areas — first, in an interest in the Reforma-
tion itself, and secondly, in a deepening interest in what has been
called by others creative intuition. Like many Christians, I have
felt that all of us (Christians) gave great scandal to the rest of the
world by our failure to love one another as Christ had taught us
both formally and by example. Naturally, of course, I am thrilled
and inspired by the present Council in Rome which, in spite of
all the human qualities manifested by those in attendance, seems
elevated and informed by the spirit of Christ, and by the extent to
which Roman Catholics finally give evidence of their yearning for
union with others and their love for all others in the true spirit of
Christ. My convictions about God and man’s relation to God have
been deepened by the study of philosophy and history and have
been informed also by my interest in painting, in sculpture, and
other beautiful objects which man designs or builds. I believe with

{ 439 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Duns Scotus that all created beauty gives evidence of and glory to
the ultimate Creator.

HARVEY BENJAMIN FULLER, UI

 

HOME ADDRESS: 45 E. Fountain Ave., Cincinnati, Ohio 45246.

oFFice Appress: H, B. Fuller Co., 4020 Cherry St., Cincinnati, Ohio 45246.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: AB., magna cum laude, 1940(41).

marrieD: Laura Alice Chatterton, Aug. 1, 1942 (divorced 1964). CHILDREN:
Harvey Benjamin, qth, May 9, 1946; Jane Chatterton, Aug. 15, 1948.

occupation: President, H. B. Fuller Company, manufacturers of industrial
adhesives,

OFFICES HELD: President, Cincinnati Rotary Club, 1957-58; District Governor,
Rotary International, 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: Cincinnati Club; Mensa; Cincinnati Opera Association (director);
Adhesive Manufacturers Association.

 

hee it eh OS , arenes qenees are
eMC EP OR NAR ER oe ve tg es
PME MRO bee PERO EO BEATE IO edge Ee Wyte cae eh age 8

bea nein, Agta lef a .

[ 440 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLARD PERRIN FULLER, JR.

 

HOME ApprREss: Sunset Street, San Andreas, Calif. 95249.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Calaveras Cement Co., San Andreas, Calif,

_ PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940, s.M. (Cali-
fornia Inst. of Technology), 1942.

MARRIED: Vera Inez Smith, Nov. 15, 1942. CHILDREN: Frederick Timothy, Jan.
18, 1944; Frances Elizabeth, Dec. 27, 1949; Cecilia (diced Nov. 6, 1952) and
Margery Ellen (twins), Nov. 6, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Fuller, ’38, m.B.a., ’48.

OCCUPATION: Mining geologist; assistant supervisor for raw materials, Calaveras
Cement Company, division of The Flintkote Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Troop Committee, Boy Scouts, 1955-59; secretary,
Calaveras County Republican Central Committee, since 1960; chairman,
Calaveras County Library Commission, since 1961; director, Calaveras
County Friends of the Library, since 1961; editor, Las Calaveras, quarterly
bulletin, Calaveras County Historical Society, 1964.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum Engi-
neers; Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Several short historical magazine and newspaper articles.

I MUST have taken Horace Greeley’s century-old advice most
seriously in June of 1940, and now I feel very much a true westerner.
Brief and rather infrequent trips back to New England point up the
different outlook and manner of living in the West which I ad-
mittedly enjoy. There are, though, many aspects of New England
life that I miss.

A career in mining requires one to live in far out-of-the-way
places as well as to move often. We set up housekeeping in Gabbs,
a wartime boom town in central Nevada, and before we left we felt
quite acclimated to the desert environment, even becoming fond of
the natural beauty and openness of this sparsely settled area. After

[441 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

a hecuc two years in the Navy, I returned to a normal mining
engineer's habitat when we settled down for five years in the Tintic
district in Utah for the Anaconda Company. Those were busy times,
introducing me to nearly all the varied tasks placed before a member
of my profession, and they passed rapidly.

In 1951 TI returned to California, which had been our headquarters
during the war, and joined the statf of a little gold-mining company
with the improbable name of the Original Sixteen to One Mine,
where I had worked summers while doing graduate work at Cal
Tech. Located in a nearly forgotten, rundown gold rush camp high
in the northern Sierra Nevada, the little community of Alleghany
wasn't much of a place in which to live but did have its intriguing
side — namely the fascinating business of gold-mining. However,
after only a vear in Alleghany, a polio germ found me in my moun-
tain retreat. Upon recovering, it seemed sensible to move closer to
civilization and to an area where I could get around with less physical
difficulty. So a move to the foothills and a change from mining
gold to quarrying limestone took place in 1954. We settled with our
three small children in San Andreas, a small “Mother Lode” town in
the county made famous by an early story of one Samuel L. Clemens
about frog-jumping. Of course, frog-j jumping is no longer seriously
practised in these parts except for three days each mid-May.

Here in San Andreas we have remained since and to our children,
born in Nevada, Utah, and California, this will be the home where
they grew up. Only son Timothy will recall some of our earlier
adventures in western mining camps. Cement-making, though hardly
a romantic occupation — but certainly more useful than looking for
gold — is sufficiently complicated, even just in the raw materials
end, to keep me busy and interested. Fortunately, I have a small con-
sulting clientele in gold mining which enables me to keep a finger in
such matters. We maintain a house at Alleghany where most of this
work is and for weekends up in the mountains.

Our eldest, Tim, is in college (Sacramento City College) and ex-
periencing an adventure that I am sure is quite different from our

own a quarter of a century ago. Fran is a high school freshman, and
Margie is in the seventh grade here at San Andreas. Recalling the
words of William McFee, the novelist, that “bringing up a family is
no joke,” I sometimes wonder how successful we all rate ourselves in
this complicated pastime.

As the years go by, it seems ever easier to get involved in com-
munity activities and responsibilities and ever more difficult to

[ 442]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

extricate oneself. Since our last Report, I have become more active
in the local historical society, in county library management, in
central committee work (Republican), and most recently in helping
start a new country day school in nearby Stockton.

ROBERT FULTON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 11 Tanglewood Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass, 02181.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Boston College High School, Boston, Mass., New Preparatory
School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1941. DEGREES: A.B., 1940(41); LL.B. (Boston Univ.),

1947.

MarRRIED: Mary Elisabeth Carraher, July 12, 1947. cHiLpREN: David Hugh, 2d,
April 12, 1948; Stephen, Oct. 27, 1949; Louisa Ann, Nov. 4, 1952; Robert,
Jr., Dec. 27, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Fulton, 744.

OccUPATION: Trial attorney.
MEMBER OF: Massachusetts, Boston, Middlesex County, Norfolk County and

Waltham-Weston-Watertown Bar Associations; Harvard Varsity Club.

FOR a number of reasons, chief among which is the fact that I grow
more embarrassed each time I meet Peter Pratt and have to admit
that I have not written my life’s résumé for the Twenty-fifth Re-
union Class Report, and secondarily because I am sure that he will
soon be asking me to bestir other classmates to write their résumés, I
take this opportunity to try to condense into a short space what I
would, if asked, assert would fill a book.

I have had occasion recently to examine the 25th Anniversary
Report of the Class of 1939 and I must say that the comparison of
photographs alone is both illuminating and horrifyi ing. It might be
that words are superfluous but perhaps they serve in some way to

[ 443 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

explain the varving degrees of changes seen in the appearances of
classmates.

Twenty-five years seems like a lifetime and, certainly, many
events have taken place since we left Harvard. Yet when one starts
to summarize the events it becomes apparent that it is not an easy
task.

Four and one-half years in the U.S. Army commencing June 1,
1941, and including over three years of overseas servicé in the
Pacific Islands commencing January 23, 1942, broadened my educa-
tion tremendously and, although I wish I had the years back, I can-
not say that all was wasted. I returned to civilian life with a much
stronger desire to complete law school and be about earning a living.

In rapid succession after my June, 1947, graduation from Boston
University Law School came marriage to a young lady who must
have been temporarily insane, admission to the bar of Massachusetts
and the arrival of two new citizens, both boys.

Fight years in one place seemed to be the schedule although I am
positive it was not planned. We lived eight years in Waltham, moved
to Belmont and stayed eight years and, in 1964 moved to Wellesley.
During this time two more citizens arrived: my “only daughter”
(her description) in 1952 and Bobby, Jr., in 1956.

Seventeen years of active trial practice certainly should have
produced ulcers, they have not yet manifested themselves I am
happy to report.

Since the children became of sufficient age we have. managed to
take automobile trips around the East and hope to continue this
practice until they reach the stage where they will be too old, which
will be sooner than we think.

Lam reluctant to admit that I have developed no particular hobby.
I do find that my fall Saturday afternoons are dissipated in the press
box of Harvard Stadium trying to help the H.A.A. keep play-by-
play records of its games; in this endeavor I probably drive Class-
mate H. H. Wood to distraction.

Naturally, being close to Cambridge, Harvard, and having a law
practice in Boston, 1 meet many classmates frequently. I am looking

forward to seeing those from out of state who have not been seen for
twenty-five long years.

[ 444]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARNOLD SIDNEY GALE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2385 Beachwood Blvd., Cleveland, Ohio 44121.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Cleveland Anesthesia Group, 2010 E. rozd St., Cleveland, Ohio

44106.
PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., Cu7m laude, 1940; M.D., 1950.
MARRIED: Cynthia Marie Green, May 8, 1945. cHiLp: Scott Jeffrey, Dec. 20,

1950.
occupation: Physician; specializing in anesthesiology.
MEMBER OF: American Society of Anesthesiologists, American Medical Asso-
ciation; International Anesthesia Society; Phi Delta Epsilon Graduate
Club of Cleveland.

I ENTERED military service within a week of graduation and re-
mained on active duty for the next five and a half years. I served
with the First Infantry Division and Headquarters, Fifth Army, as
an artillery officer, ending up as a major. I was involved in combat in
North Africa and Italy and saw service in England. I returned home
from Italy in March, 1945, and was married to Sybil (Cynthia Marie
Green) on V-E day, May 8, 1945. After the war the Medical School
was kind enough to honor its prewar acceptance which I had de-
clined because of the imminence of the war. So, feeling like an old
man amongst the youngsters just out of accelerated college pro-
grams, I started my medical career in September, 1946, along with
a few classmates. Other classmates were six years ahead of us and
acted as instructors by the time we reached the clinical phase of
medical school]. I enjoyed medical school and medicine in general.
My niche was found in anesthesiology which has been a challenging
specialty. I have enjoyed the clinical practice along with a modicum
of clinical research.
We have one child, Scott, who was born during my internship

[445 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

davs and ts now a strapping fourteen-vear-old (as of the date of re-
port). He is a big lad who will probably match my six feet, six
inches.

Mv interest in the military which was started in ROTC has con-
tinued through the vears. L have remained active in the Reserves as
an artillery officer. | recently graduated from the Reserve Com-
mand and General Statf College ‘and am a lieutenant colonel.

My other chief interests are family life and amateur radio. Both
Scott and I hold amateur radio “tickets” — WA8HMA and WA8-
HPB respectively.

Unfortunately, my contacts with classmates have been very rare.
I saw Marshall Goldblatt in Florida and Fd Nestor at Army camp
and that’s about all — except for fund solicitation, that 1s.

Politically, I was a great admirer of our late Classmate Jack
Kennedy and shared most of his views. I am not active in politics
but would classify myself as a bit left of center.

TUDOR GARDINER

 

HOME ADogess: 29-B Chestnut St, Boston 8, Mass.

prepared aT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1940, DEGREES: A.B. summa cum laude, 1940, LL-B.,
1943 (47); A.M, 1957.

magsiep: Tenley Albright, Dec. 31, 1941. can: Lilla Reece, Oct. 17, 1962.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Thomas Gardiner, ‘42, Sylvester Gardiner, '46 (deceased).

occupation: Working for Ph.D. in classical philology at Harvard.

orrices Help: Trustee, US. Amateur Wrestling Foundation, chairman, N.E.-
A.A.U. Graeco-Roman Wrestling Committee, 1943-4, 1964-65.

AFTER having practised law for several years, FE suddenly found
myself studying part-time at Harvard, during my convalescence

[ 444 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

from a mild but persistent bout of hepatitis, and got an A.M. in
classical philology. A few years later saw the beginning of work for
a Ph.D., involving several required courses and a good deal of effort
just to get started again. My thesis is to be about Thucydides and his
history of the Peloponnesian War. I hope to keep studying historical
processes and the effect on events of knowledge or ignorance of them.

In 1961 I married Tenley Albright, then a resident surgeon at
- Beverly Hospital, and we now live on Beacon Hill with our little
daughter. We have just returned, as this is written, from a wonder-
ful trip to Japan during the Olympics.

CHARLES WARREN GARDNER

 

HOME ADpRESS: 34 Marmion Way, Rockport, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Howard High School, West Bridgewater, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937, 1938-1939. DEGREES: A.B. (Boston Univ.), 1940;
A.M, (ibid.), 1948.

MarRIED: Charlotte F. Edwards, April 19, 1941. cuitprEN: Grace Frances, Nov.
3, 1943; Charles Warren, Jr., March 9, 1945; George Edward, July 10,

1951.
occUPATION: Superintendent, Rockport Public Schools,
BEST wishes to the fellows with whom I have maintained contact
since the days of Harvard College; I hope the Yearbook and the
Reunion are the best!

[ 447 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

WILLIAM ALBERT GARSIDE

 

mamma 145 Judson St, Evanston, Ill. 60202.

HERBERT CHISHOLM GATES ———

 

===ess: 501 Washington St. Brighton 35, Mass.

[ 448 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

VICTOR EMMANUEL GATTO

 

HOME AbpREss: 99 Country Way, Needham, Mass. 02192.

OFFICE ADDRESS: V. E, Gatto Insurance Agency and Cantabrigia Homes, 1034
Great Plains Ave., Needham, Mass. 02192.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1933-1934, 1936-1939. DEGREE: S.B. 1940.

MARRIED: Muriel Adams, Aug. 3, 1946. CHILDREN: Victor Emmanuel, Jr. April
24, 1947; Gillian Elizabeth, March 31, 1948; Richard William, May 9, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lucio Ernest Gatto, 34, M.D., ’38.

occuPaTION: Owner and general manager of real estate and insurance firm,
licensed real estate broker and licensed insurance broker and agent selling
all types of real estate and all lines of insurance.

OFFICES HELD: Military aide to Governor of Massachusetts, January, 1957, to
January, 1961; Town Meeting Member, Precinct 4B, Needham, about ten
years; Governor’s Executive Advisory Commission member to Real Estate
License Board, Massachusetts, 1960-61; member, Membership Committee,
1960-63, 1964-65, Annual Banquet Commuttee, 1964-65, Greater Boston
Real Estate Board; lieutenant colonel, USAF Reserve, administrative officer,
8310th AF Recovery Group, 228th AR Squadron, 1964-65; district direc-
tor, United Fund, two years in ’s50’s; sponsor chairman, executive board,
Needham Little League, seven years; manager, Needham Pony (Senior)
League, 1963-64-65; treasurer, Needham Pee Wee Football, 1957-1964-65;
chairman, Historical Window Committee, Needham 250th Celebration,
1961; president, High Rock School P.T.A., Needham, 1955.

MEMBER OF: Boston Real Estate Board, National Association of Real Estate
Boards — REALTOR; Veterans of Foreign Wars; American Legion;
Knights of Columbus; St. Joseph’s Holy Name Society; Harvard Club of
Boston; Boston Club of the Harvard Business School; Needham Golf
Club; Air Force Athletic Association — charter life member (Air Force
Academy); Booster Club, Needham; Museum of Science, Boston, Air
Force Association, Reserve Officers Association; Harvard Varsity Club,

THIS Twenry-fifth Reunion year marks the tw enty-fourth year
for me in real estate. In ig4t I started with RM Bradley & Com-

[449 ]

___—

HARVARD CLASS OF IQ40

PAUL HENRY GEBHARD

 

HOME appRESS: Route 8, Box 340, Bloomington, Ind.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 318 Jordan Hall, Indiana University, Bloomington, Ind.

PREPARED AT: East Denver High School, Denver, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: S.B., cu laude, 1940; A.M., 1942; PHD.,
1947.

MarrIED: Agnes Elizabeth West, May 19, 1939. CHILDREN: Paul, Sept. 3, 1945
(died 1950); Mark, November, 1950; Jan, June, 1952; Karla, September,
1954. ,

occupation: Director, Institute for Sex Research, Inc.; associate professor of
anthropology, Indiana University.

OFFICES HELD: Acting chairman, Anthropology Department, Indiana University
(periodically).

MEMBER OF: American Anthropological Association (fellow); American
Sociological Association (fellow); Society for American Archaeology;
Society for the Study of Social Problems; Indiana Academy of Science;
Sigma Xi.

pusLications: Sexual Behavior in the Human Female, 1953 (co-author with
Kinsey, Pomeroy and Martin), W. B. Saunders Company; “Hormonal Fac-
tors in Human Behavior” (co-author with Kinsey and Christenson), in
Hoffmeyer (ed.), Saniliv og Samfund, 1957, Copenhagen; Pregnancy, Birth
and Abortion, 1958 (co-author with Pomeroy, Martin and Christenson),
Harper-Hoeber, a volume on sex offenders is in the publisher’s hands.

AFTER a series of diverse part-time jobs held during graduate stu-
dent days, I ultimately joined Dr. Alfred C. Kinsey in his research
before he published the book which made his name a household
word. At roughly the same time, 1946, I became affiliated with the
Anthropology Department of Indiana University. Since then the
years have been both a fascinating and hectic combination of re-
search, travel and teaching. Since Kinsey’s death in 1956 and the
inexorable accumulation of seniority in the university, the research
aspect of my life has steadily shrunk while the chores which are

[ 452 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dignified by the label “administrative work” have expanded. The
knowledge that this same fate has overtaken far better research men
than I is a consolation, albeit a cool one. .

Meanwhile my wife and I, victimized by certain magazines which
must remain nameless, found that living in the country did not
make us landed gentry, but serfs, and as my rural neighbors pre-
dicted, “When the kids are big enough to help, they won't.”

JOSEPH JOHN GEEHERN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 42 Apple Orchard Heights, Westfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 42 Arnold St., Westfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Westfield High School, Westfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., wagna cum laude, 1940; 11.B.,
cum laude, 1949.

MarRIED: Marguerite T. Gorman, April 22, 1950. CHILDREN: Joseph John, Jr.,
Aug. 17, 1953; Christopher Paul, April 5, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Jerome Geehern, °42.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; assistant general counsel and tax counsel, Stanley Home
Products, Inc., Westfield, Mass.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Citizens Scholarship Foundation.

MEMBER oF: American, Massachusetts, Boston and Hampden County Bar
Associations; Rotary; Tax Executives Institute, Inc.

MOST of the past twenty-five years I have spent in the practice
of law, first in Boston and more recently in the town from which
I went to college in 1936. I have acquired a wife and two sons,
all of whom, after only moderate brainwashing, are enthusiastic
followers of Harvard affairs.

I have enjoyed the practice of law and have specialized largely
in tax and related corporate matters. It is probably a sign of age
that at this point I find it hard to imagine doing anything else.

[ 453 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

STANLEY GELLER

 

Lie

HOME ADDRESS: 152 W’. 12th St, New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 400 Madison Ave. New York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Franklin School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1940; LL.B. 1943(47).

marriep: Adele Robinson, Oct. 2, 1943. CHILDREN: Alice, Nov. 13, 1947; George
Robinson, Jan. 31, 1951.

occUPATION: Attorney, partner in Butler, Jablow & Geller.

OFFICES HELD: Member, New York County Committee, since 1957, chairman,
Divisional Committee, since 1961, Democratic Party; president, Village
Independent Democrats, 1962; secretary, Andrew Geller, Inc., since 1954;
trustee, Garment Center Congregation, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: New York County Lawyers Association,

 

THE last twenty-five years have not been unpleasant for me.
Twenty-one of them have been spent in a relatively blissful state of
matrimony, if I am to judge by my knowledge of the marriages of
friends, neighbors, and clients; seventeen in the company of a daugh-
ter, who has grown up to be a very nice young lady and, hopefully,
will enter Vassar next year; fourteen in competition with a son, who
has all the makings of a very fine young man; ten in a brick-and-
brownstone house in Greenwich Village, which is my prize pos-
session, although my wife is quick to remind me that title is solely in
her name; and eight in a law firm with two, more recently three,
partners, who are not only good lawyers but good friends.

As the poet said, there are always some lumps in the pudding, but
in mine to date they have been thankfully few. Fight years ago my
mother died and three years ago my father. There have been a few
raisins, too. In addition to my family, which is undoubtedly the
nicest thing that has happened to me in the last quarter century, I

have participated in one or two events which remain not only a
source of enjoyment but of pride.

[454]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

For about the last eight years I have been involved, at times quite
deeply, in what has come to be known as the “Reform Movement”
in the Democratic Party in New York City. My immediate con-
nection has been with an organization known formally as the “Village
Independent Democrats” but called many other and harsher names by
political enemies. The primary reason for the name-calling is that
three times running the “VID” has defeated the “boss” of all political
bosses, New York’s own Carmine G. DeSapio, and thereby begun a
process that is changing the face of New York politics — slowly, of
course, and there will be reverses, but as so many of Carmine’s
captains have so sadly stated, ““Things’ll never be the same again.”

The very young, extremely capable, and completely dedicated
group of citizen-politicians who compose the membership of the
“VID” did me the honor of electing me president of their organiza-
tion in the year immediately following their first victory over De-
Sapio, and with characteristic irregularity they have listened to much
of what I have had to say on key political issues ever since. All of
this may prove that they are as crazy as some of their enemies claim,
but then I am gratified to hear that I am usually considered “the
worst of them all” by the same foes.

Shortly after I became active in the “VID,” I became almost as
intensely involved with another much smaller but even more
courageous group, the five parents who decided that it was all wrong
that a prayer should be required to be said each day in the public
schools on Long Island which their children were compelled to
attend. The prayer was the so-called “Regents’ Prayer” and the
determination of the parents opposed to it led to the first of the now
famous “Prayer Cases” decided by the U.S, Supreme Court (Engel
v. Vitale, 370 U.S. 421, 1962).

The parents opposed to the Regents’ Prayer appealed for help to
the New York Civil Liberties Union. That worthy organization
asked my partner, Bill Butler (A.B. ’46), to take the case and Bill
asked me to join him, Bill conducted all of the oral arguments, and
I wrote all of the briefs, and ultimately the U.S. Supreme Court
agreed with us that the saying of a prayer, however brief or non-
sectarian, in a public school, by order of the school authorities,
violated the Establishment and Due Process Clauses of the Federal
Constitution, even if students could be excused from participating
in the prayer.

As we suspected it would, the final decision in the Engel case
shook up a lot of people in this country and apparently continues to

[455 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.140

JEROME LESTER GILBERT

  

HOME ADDRESS: 423 Broadway, Lawrence, Long Island, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Lynn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940, M.D. (Long Island Coll. of
Medicine), 1943.

marae: Harriet Cohen, June 6, 1951. coitpren: Andrea Carol, May 2, 1953;
Donald Marun, June 27, 1954.

occuPATION: Practising physician; part-time associate professor of physiology,
State University of New York, College of Medicine, New York City.

pusLications: Humors, Hormones and Neurosecretions, Brooks, Gilbert,
Levey & Curtis; numerous papers mostly in American Journal of Physi-
ology.

RODMAN GILDER, JR.

 
  

ae] i
HOME AND OFFICE ADbRESS; 12 School Lane, Scarsdale, N.Y,

pasparen at: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass., Fountain V alley School, Colorado
Springs, Colo,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: 8.8, cum laude, 1940; Mo. (Columbia
Univ.), 1944-

[ 458 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MarRIED: Mary Ellen Bowman, June 30, 1948. CHILDREN: David A. March 7,
1950; Richard W,, Jan. 18, 1952; Joshua R., March 15, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Watson Gilder, ’36 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Physician (psychiatrist and psychoanalyst), private practice;
member of staff, Presbyterian Hospital and College of Physicians and Sur-
geons, Columbia University.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Scarsdale Family Counseling Service, 1957-60, West-
chester Adoption Service, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Psychiatric Association;
American Orthopsychiatric Association, American Psychoanalytic Asso-
ciation, New York Psychoanalytic Institute and Society, Assoctation for
Psychoanalytic Medicine, Century Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in professional journals on childhood accidents, emotional
reactions to body injury and the effect of emotions on perception,

ON graduating from Harvard, where my main interests were eco-
nomic theory and gliding, I naturally went into medicine. After
medical school and internship, I had fifteen months in the Navy in-
cluding a short stay in Cairo. There I was lucky enough to do some
physiological research as well as see Tutankhamen’s tomb, take a
street car to the Pyramids, bargain half a day in the market, and sail
on the Nile.

Back home I taught physiology at Sarah Lawrence for several
months, then on to pediatric residency, psychiatric residencies and
psychoanalytic training. In 1952 the Navy called me back for an-
other eighteen months. Again, I was lucky to get a research job.
I studied emotional reactions to physical injury and problems in
perception. Then back home to practise psychiatry and psycho-
analysis along with some teaching and research.

As for recreation, I gave up gliding soon after marriage, though
not till Ellen had taken one good flight. This was in Colorado with
David Stacey. As the family grew, gliding became more and more
impractical and even began to seem somewhat dangerous! We've
enjoyed a variety of activities in summer vacations and seem to get
the most fun out of small boat sailing and cruising.

Family life with Ellen and the boys has been very happy but moves
too fast. I find the children are more serious than I and surer of
what they want to do. And they work much harder.

[459 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

NELSON GILDERSLEEVE

 

HOME ApprEss: 41 Church Sr, Weston, Mass. 02193.

PREPARED AT: Scarsdale High School, Scarsdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1940.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Manager of marketing.

OFFICES HELD: President, Schenectady Wintersports Club, 1944-46; director,
US. Eastern Amateur Ski Association, 1944-64; vice-president, Instrument
Society of America, 1950-52, 1959-61; council, executive board, Boy Scouts
of America, 1953-59; president, Massachusetts Junior Chamber of Com-
merce, 1954-55; assistant patrol leader, Mt. Washington Volunteer Ski
Patrol, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: American Management Association; U.S. Eastern Amateur Ski
Association; Appalachian Mountain Club; Instrument Society of America;
National Ski Patrol (Mad River, Vermont, and Mt. Washington Volun-
teer Ski Patrol); Harvard Club of New York.

HOW distressing to have to write of the past twenty-five years.
By the calendar it is twenty-five, but in spirit, and in current physical
activity, it seems only like ten. It shocks me to realize how litrle has
been done in life already, and the accelerated pace required ahead
to have some substantial accomplishments in which one can take
pride.

Although accepted in 1940 at Harvard Law School, for patent
law, I decided a year of engineering would be helpful, and joined
General Electric Company in Schenectady, New York, Nineteen
years later I departed from G.E. for greener pastures, having gone
the test engincer, design engineer, sales engincer, sales manager route,
all in new product areas of instrumentation and automation,

The war years were all spent at G.E., doing some work on sonar,
the Manhattan Project, and equipment design and testing. Through-
out that period, I tried to measure my contribution relative to those

[ 460 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the armed services. There is no measurement possible. All jobs
had to be done.

Following G.E., I joined Royal McBee and reached my position
business goal of general manager; death of the president made that
activity short-lived. There followed three happy years as marketing
manager for a shoe machinery manufacturer — happy because my
highest level of competence, the training and development of men,
was called into fullest play. Small business (large, too, I presume)
can be full of real back-knifing. I found out, and as of this writing
am still in the midst of relocation activity. Time available permits
some departure from the reading of so many business executives —
business books only — to an assortment that will do at least a 1%
job in the removal of some mental stagnation.

I have not as yet been blessed with wife or family, but am about
95% sure of bringing my own wife to Reunion. I’m, of course,
anxious to find out how few of us have not yet taken this important
step into happiness.

One sport, skiing, has given to me my greatest avocational plea-
sure, my closest friends, and an atmosphere of people and activity
that has done a remarkable job, in my opinion, in keeping me young
in spirit without middle-age paunch.

I look with gratitude at Harvard. It was fun; it was rewarding.
However, having been thrown into the wartime recruiting activity
of General Electric, with graduates from hundreds of colleges in the
United States, I learned rapidly that universities at the undergraduate
level do not have truly significant differences between them, and that
out of all emerge men whose success is more related to their original
eighteen years of environment than their collegiate location.

Have I made any contribution to date? To people, perhaps yes.
I have for most of the last twenty-five years developed men in everv
walk of life, in business particularly, in Scouting, in Jaycees, in skiing
and mountain-climbing, in every possible activity. This has been a
labor of joy, one that will continue at least another twenty-five years.

[461 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ARMAND GILINSKY

  

HOME ApprEsS: River Road, Scarborough, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 122 E, 42d St New York, N.Y.; 1730 K St, N.W., Washington,
D.C.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Omaha, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LL.B., 1943 (48).

acarrieD: Alberta Steinman, July 14, 1944. cHiLpREN: Ann, July 1, 1950; Ar-
mand, Jr, Aug. 19, 1954, Adam, Nov. 4, 1957; Peter Jacobson, Feb. 5,
1940 (stepson).

HARVARD BROTHER: Morton Louis Gilinsky, '46.

occupation: Attorney-at-law.

OFFIces HELD: Acting general counsel, Democratic National Committee, 1956;
chairman, Town of Ossining Democratic Committee, 1953-61, member,
executive committee, Westchester County Democratic Committee, 1953-
61; president, board of trustees, Scarborough (N.Y.) School, member,
National Advisory Mental Health Council, National Institute of Mental
Health, vice-president and secretary, David B, Steinman Foundation, Inc.;
trustee, Jewish Board of Guardians, New York City; vice-chairman,
Linden Hill School Committee; member, Mental Health Committee, New
York State Bar Association.

MEMBER OF: New York State Bar Association; Bar of the Federal Court for the
Southern District of New York, Bar of Circuit Court of Appeals for
the Second Circuit; Bar of the Supreme Court of the United States; Bar
Association of the City of New York; New York County Lawyers Asso-
ciation; Harvard Club of New York; National Lawyers Club of Wash-
ington, D.C.

UPON graduation from the College 1 attended Harvard Law
School and worked for a short time for the United Fruit Company
in Boston prior to entering the government service. I served a
brief time in the Army attending counter-intelligence school, Office
of the Provost Marshal, Upon completion of the course I was

discharged a sergeant and was commissioned as ensign in the U.S.
Naval Reserve.

[ 462 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After four months I was stationed at 90 Causeway Street in Boston
in the Office of the Port Director of the First Naval District. My
request for duty at sea was granted and | attended Tower Hall in
Chicago. Thereafter I was assigned to the Amphibious Forces and
served as an LCT skipper in North Africa, Sicily, Salerno and
Anzio. Upon return to the United States I schooled other officers
in amphibious warfare and finished my military duty as officer-in-
charge of refrigerated and other cargo shipping, Commander,
Western Sea Frontier, San Francisco.

During the war, on July 14, 1944, Bastille Day, I married Alberta

Steinman, A.B. Smith College, Ph.D. Columbia University. While
I studied at the Law School she taught psychology at Tufts College
and later at Vassar College. In early 1946 I returned to Harvard
Law School and completed my legal education in 1948. I then
clerked for Sol A. Rosenblatt, Esq., in New York City.
- Two years later I formed a law partnership with another member
of our Class, Bertram H. Schur, and a member of my law school
graduating class, Paul Mishkin. This partnership terminated in
1961, when Bertram H. Schur went to the Office of the General
Counsel, Atomic Energy Commission. Mr. Mishkin and I have
continued the partnership and practice today both in New York
and Washington, D.C.

During the years a strong feeling for politics (political science
had been my major at college) asserted itself. In the 1956 presi-
dential campaign I served in Washington as acting general counsel
for the Democratic National Committee. Untl my appointment
in 1963 as a member of the National Advisory Mental Health
Council of the National Institute of Mental Health, I held various
other party positions.

Today, what little non-professional time there is available, I
devote to problems of education and mental health. I am presently
serving as president of the board of trustees of the Scarborough
School, as a trustee of the Jewish Board of Guardians, a New York
social welfare organization, and as a member of the New York
State Bar Association’s Mental Health Committee.

Although my professional and civic life has been full, I have
enjoyed a most happy and stimulating life with my family. Har-
vard has had a place in preparation for all this. On self-examina-
tion I find it difficult to assess, but it is there and positive,

[ 463 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF IQO40

LANGDON BROWN GILKEY

  

OME ADDRESS: 5713 Harper Ave., Chicago, Ill.

FFICE appress: Divinity School, University of Chicago, Chicago, IIL.

zEPARED AT: Asheville School, Asheville, N.C.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. Magna cum latde, 1940.

arrieD: Dorothy E. Bottom, June 25, 1949 (divorced 1962), Sonja Weber,
Jan. 26, 1963. cHitp: Mark Whitney, April 5, 1959.

cuPATION: Professor of theology.

puications: Afaker of Heaven and Earth, Doubleday, 1959; How The
Church Can Minister to The World Without Losing Itself, Harper &
Row, 1963.

is a sobering task to sum up one’s life in mid-passage. Suppose
‘re is nothing there to report on, nothing there to be toted up
O a nice attractive package? What if a man, looking back on

last twenty-five years, had to admit to himself that none of it

lly made sense, that there had been no real 3 joy, love, or ecstasy,
his job was filled with distasteful trivia and little else, his home
ulated by isolated and often bickering strangers, and that he
1t really know what it all meant, where its values lay, and
7 he was involved in it?

report built on such lines would, of course, be the worst sort of
sy, denying one of the cardinal principles of our culture,
cly that in our society the life of the normal, well-educated,
-bred male endowed with a minimal equipment of brains and
ty can be expected to be in its own chosen way meaningful.
> Miller’s “Death of a Salesman” academics have suspected that
nicture was sheer myth for the average businessman and have
ed for Wally Lomanses behind the cager greetings and nervous
nis of their commercial classmates — but then Albee sank all
ants of academic superiority with “Virginia Woolf.” All of

[ 444 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

us gaze at these plays with instant and deep recognition: “Yes,
that is the way it mostly is.” But then when we come to write our
official summing up of our own life, we shy away from heresy
and even more from the void of emptiness which follows personal
honesty here. And so most of us write about our lives not as they
probably are but as they might be ideally if all the meaninglessness,
frustration, disappointment, and hostility were somehow rubbed
right out of them. We write of our loyal and loving wives and our
happy marriages, our always fascinating children, our intriguing
work and quiet accomplishments, our captivating hobbies and worth-
ful communal activities —and so on. Our lives cease to be the
ambiguous passages through time that they are and become instead
embodiments of value if not of virtue, a well-rounded and satis-
factory human existence which in its own self is so clearly meaning-
ful and purposive that it raises no deeper questions about life because
all of life’s problems have been resolved in its quietly successful
unfolding. The only trouble with these pictures of life, besides the
ugly and arbitrary advent of death into their midst, is that such
portraits are not true. Even Harvard men enjoy no such smooth
passage through time, nor such happy protection against the fateful
and the tragic in life. I know. I wrote one of those just before
our Twentieth, and a brief year later found my home broken and
myself headed for divorce.

How then does one write these things? First of all, we must
give up the idea that our own life must embody visible value and
worth if we are to bear it or talk about it — for most surely don't,
and honesty will not be found by that path. It is, I think, the
better part of wisdom to leave the question of the value of what
we are and do to wider purposes than our own careers —to be-
lieve in life, so to speak, by faith and not by our own rather feeble
and very ambiguous works. Such faith that life can have values
even when we cannot discern them frees us for a healthy and
accurate baffement about who we are and where we are going,
a baffement I find true to the actual character of things as I have
experienced them. The most dangerous sort of approach is to think
that unless our lives are clearly successful, worthwhile, noble, or
fascinating, then they are worthless — for then we can only be
conceited and untruthful, or else despairing but honest.

Writing then about things with more interest in accuracy than
in their value and meaning, I find life totally unpredictable and
myself fairly incompetent to control its major movements. In

[ 465 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN GILL

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 168 Homer St, Newton Center, Mass. 02159.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge School, Weston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; M.D., 1943.

sarriep: Martha Joan Gill, June 10, 1943 (divorced 1947); Erna Maria Fred-
rike Hoffner, March 24, 1956. cHiLpreN: Prudence Hope, Aug. 6, 1960
(died Aug. 6, 1960); Nancy Maria, Aug. 28, 1961; Lucia Franklin, Dec. 18,
1963.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Jonathan Belding Gill, ’41; Peter Lawrence Gill, ’qz.

occupaTioN: Physician, specializing in psychoanalysis and psychiatry, largely
in private practice. .

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in psychiatry, Harvard Medical School, since 1961;
assistant psychiatrist, Massachusetts General Hospital, since 1958; assistant
in psychiatry, Beth Israel Hospital, since 1955.

MEMBER OF: American Psychoanalytic Association; Boston Psychoanalytic So-
ciety and Institute, American Psychiatric Association, Massachusetts Medi-
cal Society; Charles River District Medical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Two papers on the influence of atropine on gastric functions
in Gastroenterology, 1950 and 1951; one paper on predicting post-operative
psychiatric complications, New England Journal of Medicine, 196.

AFTER college I went on to Harvard Medical School. Aside from

being interested in medicine and scientific things generally, I did not

feel prepared for any type of gainful occupation after four years in
college with a major in psychology. I liked the Medical School and

did reasonably well there, although in my senior year we had a little

trouble with the Army. We were placed on active duty as privates

first class, although mostly we were treated as privates and very little
first class. Things improved when we got a more seasoned com-
mander and for us seniors it didn’t last very long anyhow. As we
had an accelerated program due to the war our class graduated in

December, 1943, six months ahead of schedule,

I had gotten married in June, 1943, to a newly graduated girl from _

[ 468 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Wellesley College, named Martha Joan “Patty” Gill. Despite our
common surnames, we could not work things out together and by
graduation time for me had separated. After a bout of hepatitis I
went to work as a medical house officer at the Peter Bent Brigham
Hospital, feeling very fortunate to have such a good opportunity.

In those wartime days internships were only nine months long
instead of two years, so that in October, 1944, I was once again on
active duty with the Army. Very largely as a result of Harvard
degrees, I believe, I had excellent assignments to general hospitals in
this country before being assigned to General MacArthur’s head-
quarters in the Philippines and Japan as a dispensary officer. Al-
though it was great fun to knock around the far-Pacific, time was
wasting as far as finishing training was concerned and I was not sorry
to come home again, take a refresher course at Harvard and pursue
the requirements of the American Board of Internal Medicine. By
1950 I had become something of a specialist in gastroenterology and
did complete the Boards in the spring of 1952.

Even before then, however, it seemed that gastroenterology was
not the dish of tea I had hoped it would be. Although many interest-
ing and difficult diagnostic problems were encountered, treatment
was very largely symptomatic and basic causes, which I felt were
often emotional in nature, were hardly touched. Partly to know
more about the psychological factors in disease and partly because I
didn’t seem to be making any progress toward marrying again, I
embarked on a training program in psychoanalysis under the
auspices of the Boston Psychoanalytic Society and Institute. This
program included a personal psychoanalysis as well as didactic
courses in theory and practice. By 1951 I decided that I really wanted
to be a psychoanalyst myself and after a year of psychiatric residency
at the Veterans Hospital in Framingham I was fortunate enough to
be accepted by the Boston Institute as a full-fledged trainee. The
training years ended early in 1958, almost eighteen years after leav-
ing college. Incredible!

It is perhaps not to be wondered at that I have not as yet ason or
daughter in the Harvard family. In 1956, Erna Hoffner, a psvchi-
atric social worker via Pembroke and Simmons, and I were married.
Our first baby was two and a half months too early as the result of a
fall and died on the day of birth in August, 1960. Our daughter
Nancy, now three, was born a year later and Lucia, now nine
months, in December, 1963. Both girls are a constant source of
pleasure though often taken for our grandchildren,

[ 469 ]

sh li idiltalehieaaagmaainanademanapuataa tan sinha iil he EEE Ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

Despite the rather late start in life, the years have been very good
to us. Our four parents (my Dad, Class ‘of 1913) and all our close
relatives are living and well. Erna and I have been in good health,
too, though we both smoke too much, I have put on fifty pounds
since MY “freshman boxing weight of 155, but I was too thin then
any how. [have lost a lot of hair and am not so limber as I used to be,
although I play golf fairly regularly with my brother Jock and work
around the early nineteenth century homes we have in Newton and
on the Maine coast near Castine. My politics are still on the liberal
side but rather less so than when in college and I am rather surprised
that, as the years go by, I seem to be getting older in such con-

ventional ways.

1 like being a psychoanalyst very much even though, by and
large, it is a demanding and rigorous way of life which, while
bringing one into intimate contact with much human suffering, tends
to isolate one from immersion in life’s whirl and is certainly a seden-
tary form of existence. I find a partial antidote for this by teaching
Harvard Medical School students in my capacity as an instructor in
psychiatry and by supervising psychiatric residents at the Massa-
chusetts General Hospital. Having finally become established in a

profession, 1 am looking forward to at least eighteen more years of
the practice of it.

JAMES MacKINNON GILLESPIE

 

HOME appaess: RR. 1, Belgrade, Maine.

orrice aporess: Dept. of Psychology, Colby College, Waterville, Maine.

preparep at: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, 1945-1947.
1940(47); AM. 1949; PH.D., 1960.

occupation: Chairman, Department of Psychology, Colby College.

DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude,

[ 470 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MY war record was quite ordinary — and it now seems a long
time ago. A lifetime interest in music, sweet comfort in adversity,
has recently expanded to include the harpsichord. Otherwise, I
am very happy with my professorial duties at Colby College, after
fourteen years here, I feel well-rooted in Maine and expect to
remain until retirement — which will be in that fateful year, 1984
—for whose nature I can only wonder whether Orwell’s grim
depiction or my own gentle hopes provide the better prediction.

FREDERICK PHILIPS GILLIAM

 

HOME AppreEss: 1118 Marine Drive, Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE AppRrEss: Arlington Hall Station, Arlington, Va.

PREPARED AT: Woodberry Forest School, Orange, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1940.

MARRIED: Clare Marie Heinrich, May 29, 1955. CHILDREN: Ellen Calnan, Nov.
23, 1959; Frederick Philips, Jr., July 2, 1962; Leila Caroline, February 2,

1964.
OCCUPATION: Analyst, Department of Defense, U.S. Government.
MEMBER OF: Chevy Chase Country Club, Chevy Chase, Md.

NOT too many changes in my life since the last Class Report. Am
still happily, and I hope profitably, employed as an analyst by the
Department of Defense. During World War II was assigned to
Intelligence, found I liked the job and at present have every inten-
tion of rounding out my career in this field. My only break in
service occurred at the University of North Carolina which I at-
tended with the intention of becoming a school teacher. Failing a
statistics course ended that idea. I’ve often wondered what would
have happened to my life if I'd passed. Can’t say that [have too many
regrets though. I like Civil Service.

[471 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

L

Live quietly in Alexandria with my wife and three children. Meet-

ing my wife on the job was one of the good breaks that the Good
Lord gave me. Any thoughts that I might have of growing old grace-
fully, or becoming set in my ways, are quickly dissipated as I face the
problem of raising three young children, Traveling is pretty much
restricted to the annual visit to New Hampshire to stay with the in-
laws. Have hopes in this respect though. Gardening and a little

fishing keep me happily occupied,

RUSSELL ADAMS GILMORE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 933 E. Schantz Ave., Dayton 19, Ohio.

OFFICE appress: Peerless Companies, 214 S. Perry St., Dayton 2, Ohio.
PREPARED AT: Isaac C, Elston High School, Michigan City, Ind.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREE: $.B. (Indiana Univ.), 1941.

MarrieD: Mildred Elizabeth Schmidt, Jan. 29, 1943. CHILDREN: Russell Adams,
3d, July 6, 1945; David Schmidt, Jan. 18, 1948.

occuPaTION: Business manager — transportation and commercial storage.
OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Goodwill Industries.

MEMBER OF: Moraine Country Club; Delta Nu Alpha Transportation Frater-
nity; Rotary Club of Dayton.

IN twenty-five years I have held but two jobs. Uncle Sam was my
first employer and he placed me in the Navy. My second and last
employer is the Peerless Companies, transportation and storage. It
has been quite enjoyable, for our storage deals with manufacturing
concerns and we must be up to date and competitive.

My hobbies haven’t changed and seem to dovetail with my travels.
Somehow or other we seem to arrive at Pinehurst, North Carolina,

twice a year to combat the golf courses, and photography enters
into my other vacation spots.

[ 472 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Our family is grown, the elder son at Hillsdale College and the
younger ready to make a trip east to visit his choices for higher
learning.

I am sure I owe my ability to adjust to our rapidly changing times
to an education of which everyone should partake.

ROBERT JOY GLASER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 150 School St., Milton, Mass. 02187.

OFFICE AppREss: Affiliated Hospitals Center, Harvard Medical School, 641
Huntington Ave., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: University City High School, University City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: $.B., 1940; M.D., magna cum laude, 1943.

MarRRIED: Helen Louise Hofsommer, M.D., April 1, 1949. CHILDREN: Sally
Louise, Sept. 5, 1950; Joseph, 2d, Jan. 22, 1952; Robert Joy, Jr., Aug. 1,
1953.

OCCUPATION: President, Affiliated Hospitals Center, Inc. and professor of so-
cial medicine, Harvard Medical School.

OFFICES HELD: Dean and professor of medicine, February 1, 1957, to June 30,
1963, vice-president for Medical Affairs, July 1, 1959, to June 30, 1963,
University of Colorado School of Medicine; member, Harvard Fund
Council, 1953-56, Harvard Medical Alumni Council, 1956-59, member,
Graduate Training Grant Committee, National Institute of Allergy &
Infectious Diseases, 1958-61, consultant, National Health Research Fa-
cilities Advisory Council, 1958-61, member, since 1961; assistant secretary,
Association of American Medical Colleges, 1956-60, chairman, 1957 Teach-
ing Institute, chairman, Committee on Education & Research, 1958-63,
member, executive council, 1959-63, vice-president, 1963-64; member,
editorial board, Journal of Experimental and Molecular Pathology, since
1961; editor, Pharos of Alpba Omega Alpha, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha; Society of the Sigma Xi; American Society
for Clinical Investigation; Association of American Physicians; American
Society for Experimental Pathology; Society for Experimental Biology

{ 473 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

HAROLD GLICKMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Russel] Circle, Natick, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Harold Glickman Advertising, 665 Boylston St., Boston, Mass.
prepared AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.; Public Latin School,
Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.
marrieD: Beatrice E, Marden, Aug. 30, 1942. cHitp: Lizbeth Ann, March 3,
1947.

OCCUPATION: President, account executive, advertising agency.

OFFICES HELD: Copy director, Cory Snow Advertising, 1947-48; creative director
and vice-president, Arnold & Company, Inc., 1948-55; assistant to pub-
licity chairman, Combined Jewish Appeal, 1954, public relations director,
Boston Evening Clinic, 1956-57, Eye Research Drive, 1959, member, board
of trustees, Temple Beth Elohim, 1962-64.

[EMBER OF: International Society for General Semantics, United Lodge, AF.

& A.M; University Club; Walnut Hill Tennis Club; Temple Beth Elohim.
YORLD War II provided most of the excitement in my life between
ine, 1940, and the start of my business doings after June, 1946, to
¢ present. In wartime I felt close to events of importance. And
u might say that Army service in Alabama, the Philippines, and
inawa incubated my advertising career. Going overseas as an
my correspondent meant scribing about the war records of the
] and paper tigers who did so well for us in the Pacific Theater.
¢ results for my “clients”: a million or more column inches of
‘spaper clippings. As for the advertising agent, he took his per-
tage in kind, swapping golf for silver bars.

Wish that advertising were truly glamorous as portrayed by tele-
mand in books, But the fact is that the games we play with our
ts’ moncy in Boston are all too often a rigorous trial of patience
roll-aids. Funny thing about my clients. They seck me, they
‘me, they need me —and then they don’t listen to me. Is it any

[ 478 ]

POA ENMPASPEN NORRIE ME AERO OMI Caan at
pe Hk A AR eR AR Ri iO PS AIS OB AN: ~~ ACN ey Oe ETI RAR Sten eennatiprteee seemermetett

— oi

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

wonder that I have worn out six squash rackets and eight dozen
balls in the past year alone? (I always needed an excuse to practise
my favorite business of playing games and now I have it.)

My real pride is my family. My wife has interrupted a successful
career as director of Lilliput Hill School (for four-year-olds, natch)
to resume as student for the purpose of investigating early childhood
education further. Our only child, Lizbeth, is off to college in
September with guitar, bicycle, and fond memories of Mom and
Pop. At press time we don’t know her destination, but I’m hoping
it’s a certain school with the highest percentage of really beautiful
undergraduates I saw when we were making the grand tour of the
Heavenly 7 et al. I think Pll become a professor. Not here. There.

One would think that the passing years would slow me down, but
I see myself doing more as time goes on, with a capacity for con-
tinually inhaling new responsibilities without choking. I seem to be
able to do more and more in less time, with less effort.

So far as the people around me are concerned, it delights me when,
at rare moments in our political existence, they stand their ground
and choose against the tide. I can only hope that last fall’s state
elections are an indication that voters are growing up. But I was
grieved to see in the defeat of our Harvardian brother Chub a vic-
tory for old-fashioned political opportunism. We can all devoutly
hope for a maturing electorate which will refuse to place showman-
ship above proven dedication and accomplishment in its require-
ments for top office. For my money, Chub was a great guard and
governor.:

I see conflicts between ideologies, racial groups, and nations all
around us, but I remain hopeful that the cooler minds will point out
the areas of agreement, the similarities, the common problems, and
so evaporate the danger-filled climate. Our hopes for a better world
depend, it seems to me, on UNESCO, Freud, and Harvard.

[ 479 J

RL TT TEA TTT TIRE Soe, one

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

ARTHUR BOYNTON GLIDDEN

  

HOME AppREsS: Pine Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Lawrence R. McCoy & Co., Inc. Worcester, Mass.
PREPARED aT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: $.B. 1940.

marrieD: Marjory L. Downs, Sept. 6, 1941. CHILDREN: Arthur Boynton, 34,
March 27, 1943; William Findlay Downs, July 24, 1945; Jane Townsend,
June 5, 1947.

occupation: Hardwood lumber business.

MEMBER OF: Dedham Country and Polo Club; Harvard Club of Boston.

TWENTY-EIGHT years ago, entering Harvard College, the far
distant future, in which we now are, was “too far off” to con-
template. Now May and I have our elder boy graduating from
Middlebury this spring, our second son a freshman at the University
of Pennsylvania and Jane graduating from Beaver in June.

Four years at Harvard were followed by over four years in
destroyers during the war. Survival was a miracle in both instances.

My business career has been entirely in hardwood lumber. I
started as a lumber handler and made it to vice-president with one
company (Atlantic Lumber Company, Boston) and then changed
to expand the same type business with a superlative organization
(Lawrence R. McCoy & Company, Inc., of Worcester) four years
ago. The “wood business” has long since outgrown its bad name
of “lumber barons cutting down all the shade trees.” Today timber
is growing faster than most people realize. The occupation iS
fascinating and sometimes profitable.

The first twenty-five years out have been extremely good; all
three children have been to Europe for one summer each. May and
I don’t get so far afield because of the usual problems of money

[ 480 ]

TTT — " 11 1

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

and time. If the second twenty-five are as full and we all can do
something real to improve this world we shall be very thankful.

With the present status of good physical health in the United
States, generally speaking, and if the king-size martinis don’t get
us sooner, 1990 should be a colorful Reunion year.

RICHARD HUNTLEY GOLDBERG

 

HOME apprEss: 16 Clare Terr., Tuckahoe, N.Y. 10707.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Aronson & Oresman, C.P.A.’s 350 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.
10001.

PREPARED AT: Rockport High School, Rockport, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; M.c.s. (Dartmouth Coll.)
1947; C.P.A. (New York), 1951.

MarRRIED; Natalie Jean Rosenthal, Vassar 42, Nov. 13, 1944. CHILDREN: Linda
Susan, Oct. 20, 1948; Ellen Joy, Oct. 25, 1952.

occuPATION: Management consultant: partner in charge, Management Services
Department, Aronson & Oresman, C.P.A.’s.

OFFICES HELD: Committee member, New York State Society of Certified Pub-
lic Accountants, Committees on Management Advisory Services, Account-
ing Machinery (chairman, 1960-62), Membership Consultation Services,
Accounting Procedure, Apparel Manufacturing, Publications; former presi-
dent, Rolls-Royce Owners Club.

MEMBER OF: New York State Society of Certified Public Accountants; Rolls-
Royce Owners Club; Antique Automobile Club of America.

PUBLICATIONS: Many articles on office systems and procedures in professional
journals.

IN twenty-five years I have gained a challenging and absorbing
vocation and a rewarding family life. (Challenging, too — Father
has long since lost his heroic image.)

My first step tow ard a career was a position in my family's busi-
ness. After six months it was obvious that I would have to get out

[ 481 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

identification with the most enduring values of our civilization.
This has sustained me through many dark days and has given me
strength of conviction. Harvard has ‘also stimulated me to reflect on
and analyze the meaning of things around me. I have long since
forgotten most of the course material but not the traditions of
respect for the individual and for independent thinking.

MARSHALL BYRON GOLDBLATT

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 11801 S.W. joth Ave., Miami 43, Fla.

ARTHUR JACOB GOLDSMITH, JR.

 

HOME avpress: 15 W. 84th St, New York 24, N.Y.
preparep aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B. 1940,
UNMARRIED,

[ 484 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPaTION: Formerly, vice-president of concern manufacturing aircraft and
industrial engine accessories.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Ramapo Anchorage Camp (non-profit and non-de-
nominational for emotionally disturbed children), since 1952.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harmonie Club,

AVRAM SHALOM GOLDSTEIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 735 Dolores St., Stanford, Calif.

OFFICE aDpREss: Dept. of Pharmacology, Stanford University, Stanford, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Walden School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum latide, 1940; M.D., cum laude,
1943.

MaRRIED: Naomi Friedman, Sept. 5, 1940 (died July z, 1946); Dora Benedict,
Aug. 29, 1947. CHILDREN: Margaret Ellen, Aug. 27, 1949; Daniel Paul,
Feb. 20, 1951; Joshua Seth, Dec. 27, 1952; Michael Benedict, May 18, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Professor of pharmacology, Stanford University, medical research,
teaching, administration.

MEMBER OF: American Society for Pharmacology and Experimental Thera-
peutics; American Society of Biological Chemists; Genetics Society of
America; America Association for Cancer Research.

PUBLICATIONS: Textbook, Biostatistics, Macmillan, New York, 1964; numerous
articles in scientific journals.

THE first six years after graduation were occupied with Harvard
Medical School, internship (Mount Sinai Hospital, New York) and
two years’ service with the Army Medical Corps. During medical
school years I made acquaintance with pharmacology, which later
became my career, and I published my first research paper. My
Army assignments were all in the U.S.; the most interesting was
seeing and caring for thousands of frostbite and trench foot cases.
I learned at. first hand that little was really known about this com-
mon condition, Some of the traditional methods of treatment were

[ 485 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JOEL CABOT GOLDTHWAIT

 

HOME aporess: 98 Court St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1180 Beacon St., Brookline 46, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: $.B., 1940; M.D., 1943.

MARRIED: Eleanor Leithead Morrison, Nov. 30, 1957. CHILDREN: Katharine
Mackenzie, July 22, 1961; Elizabeth Morrison, Oct. 27, 1964.

JARVARD BROTHER: David Atwater Goldthwait, 743.

XCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: President, New England Rheumatism Society, 1963-64; first vice-
president, New England Grenfell Association, since 1956; secretary-treas-
urer, U.S, International 14-foot Dinghy Association, 1953-59.

  

[Y graduation from college was followed by three and one-half
rears in medical school. This was the time of the speed-up in
redical education and we were graduated in December, 1943. There
ollowed an internship at the New York Hospital for nine months
nd then the Army, where two years were spent chiefly as battalion
nd regimental surgeon in the Infantry; Luzon and after the war
-orea. Return to civilian life and medical residencies at the Massa-
nusetts General Hospital, West Roxbury Vetcrans Hospital and the
obert Brigham Hospital. i
Since 1952 I have earned a living in the private practice of medi-
ne in Boston; tried to impart some technical knowledge and also 3
me wisdom to various medical students, interns and residents, and
ive researched a few medical problems with no particularly spec-
cular results in terms of the betterment of mankind. i
I was married in 1957, somewhat later than most of my classmates.
took a while to convince Eleanor but this was the best thing 1 have
er done. Two fine daughters, one of them rather new as may be
ted, grace the houschold,

*
t
Py
bE §
e
: s
‘
zs
s.
‘ e

[ 488 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Extracurricular activities consist of skiing in the winter, sailing in —
the summer, keeping an antique house in repair, a lot of gardening
and enjoying the company of good friends.

EDWIN LEO GOLDWASSER

 

HOME ApDpREsS: 508 W. Delaware Ave., Urbana, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Physics, University of Illinois, Urbana, Hl.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940(41); PHD. (Univ. of Cali-
fornia), 1950.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Weiss, Oct. 27, 1940. CHILDREN: Michael E., April 26,
1944; John Louis, June 22, 1946; Katherine, June 4, 1949; David M., Nov.
16, 1951; Richard D., Dec. 12, 1962.

HARVARD SON: John Louis Goldwasser, ’67.

OCCUPATION: Professor of physics; teaching and research,

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Midwest Universities Research Asso-
ciation, since 1952, Associated Midwest Universities, since 1964; consultant
to President’s Science Advisory Committee, 1962-63; editor, [} Nuovo
Cimento (Italian Physics Journal).

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi; American Physical Society; Federation of American
Scientists,

PUBLICATIONS: Journal articles and reports of research on high energy physics;
textbook, Optics, Waves, Atom and Nuclei, participating author; — Physi-
cal Science Study Committee’s high school text — Physics.

I GRADUATED from Harvard after spending a rather confused
and unmotivated four years in residence. These years were ac-
ademically misspent mainly because I lacked maturity and purpose.
In a broader sense they are among my most profitable experiences,
because the environment was right for growing up. Until then I had
taken it for granted that I was to follow a well-beaten path into the
business world of my father (banking) and never even thought to

[ 489 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

challenge the reasonableness of that course. I met my wife, Lizie,
during my senior year and largely through this relationship began
to see that other courses were possible. After graduation I enrolled
at Columbia University to do graduate work in electrical engineer-
ing. Lizie and I were married the October following graduation.
Although my undergraduate record as a physics major was poor, I
soon found that with some motivation I could perform well ac-
ademically, and I began to make up for lost time.

In Mav, 1941, I decided that [ would like to earn a living and that
I would also like to participate in the growing defense effort, so I
took a job with the Navy Department as a physicist, a degausser of
ships. After two vears in Washington I was transferred to San
Francisco where I supervised degaussing activities in the Twelfth
Naval District until the end of the war.

During this period we had our first child, Mike, and never have
we felt so inadequate or insecure as we did that first day when we
brought him home from the hospital. War transportation restric-
tions kept our families 3,000 miles away and we were the first in our
circle of acquaintances to have a child. Two years ago and four
children later, we had our most recent, Ricky, in a considerably more
relaxed, and probably a more relaxing, atmosphere. Along the way
we have gotten tremendous pleasure and satisfaction from watching
Mike, John, Kathy and David growing up.

Following the war I enrolled at Berkeley to do graduate work in
physics. I still had doubts about my capabilities but soon found that
I could do the work and went on to get a Ph.D. in 1950. At that
time I continued on as a research associate at Berkeley but within the
year, and during the Loyalty Oath crisis, was confronted with the
decision of accepting or rejecting a regular staff position. I decided
to leave and came to the University of Illinois where I have been
teaching and doing research in an atmosphere which is both con-
genial and stimulating. My research has been in the field of elemen- ss
tary particle physics and is concerned with the structure of the most fi
fundamental particles of which matter is constituted. One of the :
attractions of physics research is the opportunity it affords to work
on difficult and fascinating problems while engaging in a variety of tS
day-to-day activities — plumbing, mechanical design, electronics,
mathematical analysis and theory are a few of the possibilities, I 2
spent one sabbatical year on combined Fulbright and Guggenheim

Fellowships in Rome. It was an unforgettable experience for all
members of the family.

 

{ 490 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In the past few years, physicists have become concerned with the
growing problem of the relationship between science and society.
The increasing size and cost of research facilities have brought this
question to the fore. What is an appropriate investment for the
government to make in the pursuit of pure research? By what
criteria can it decide which projects to support, which not to sup-
port? These and similar questions have occupied an increasing por-
tion of my time. In this connection it has become my belief that the
long-range health of our economy and society requires an increasing
involvement of government in programs of broad social, economic
and technical impact. I do not believe that we are yet approaching a
stable equilibrium in this respect.

JOSEPH WILLIAM GOLDZIEHER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 111 Lemonwood Drive, San Antonio, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Southwest Foundation for Research & Education, Box 2296,
San Antonio, Texas.

PREPARED AT: Townsend Harris High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936~1940, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; Mb. (New York
Univ.), 1943.

MARRIED: Sara Kathryn Topper, Aug. 20, 1942 (divorced 1953); Maria Trini-
dad Garcez, 1956. cHitp: Michele Alexandra, June 30, 1944 (77. Allan
Shedlin, Jr., 196q).

OccUPATION: Medicine: clinical research; chairman, Department of Endocrinol-
ogy, Southwest Foundation; research professor, Trinity University.
OFFICES HELD: Consultant in endocrinology, U.S. Army and U.S. Air Force.

MEMBER OF: Various medical and scientific societies.

PpuBLications: About 150 scientific publications.

LIFE is too short, and time too precious to waste on autobiography.

[ 491 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

+ HERBERT JULES GOODMAN

  

BORN: March 25, 1919, Cleveland, Ohio. parents: Julius A. Goodman, Hannah
Brenner.

PREPARED AT: Shaker Heights High School, Cleveland, Ohio.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: $.B., cum laude, 1940.
pep: Feb. 5, 1944, Cleveland, Ohio.

HERBERT JULES GOODMAN spent four years with our Class
and graduated with distinction. He was survived by his parents.

WATSON MELVILLE GORDON, JR.

 

Aa

Born: March 23, 1919, Winchester, Mass, parents: Watson Melville Gordon, i \
Josephine Kakas. - 3

. &

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass. i
& a

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1941. DEGREE: 8.B., 1940(40),

marniep: Harriet Ann Baker, April 17, 1943, Pittsburgh, Pa, cumtn: Katherin, | ¢
March 11, 1944. ; \

pieD: Jan. 26, 1949, Boston, Mass. :

[ 492 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WATSON MELVILLE GORDON, JR., was an account research
supervisor with the advertising firm of Foote, Cone & Belding in
Chicago, when illness forced him to resign in the spring of 1948,
He had formerly been associated with the Vick Chemical Company
and the advertising firm of Young & Rubicam in New York City.
He was survived by his wife and daughter.

ROBERT STETSON GORHAM

 

HOME AbprEss: Byerly Hills, Caterpillar Trail, East Peoria, Ill. 61611.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Commercial National Bank, 301 S.W. Adams St., Peoria, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Lorraine Waggoner, Feb. 22, 1941. CHILDREN: Robert Stetson, Jr.,
Nov. 4, 1946; Jonathan W., Feb. 24, 1948; William T., May 2, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Thomas Gorham, Jr., 46; Roger Benedict Gorham, ’s5o.

occupation: Commercial banking; vice-president — loan officer.

OFFICES HELD: Commissioner, Tri-County Regional Planning Commission (cur-
rent); past president, Tri-County Citizens Planning Coporation; treasurer,
Elementary School District No. 69, seven years; director, Junior Achieve-
ment, Bradley United Christian Foundation (both current).

MEMBER OF: University Club of Peoria; Cosmopolitan International Club; Har-
vard Club of Chicago.

FORTIFIED with a diploma, a job at the First National Bank of
Boston and a high draft number, marriage seemed a desirable estate.
Since Washington’s Birthday of 1941 fell on a Saturday and since it
would always be a holiday, the rite was duly celebrated in Cedar
Rapids. Bliss was shattered along with the U.S, Navy at Pearl Harbor
and “Volunteer Officer Candidate’ Gorham enlisted in the U.S.
Army Air Force only to discover the VOC category existed only on
paper somewhere in the upper echelons of command. Basic training

[ 493 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

and troop trains hither and yon led to a crash program at Harvard
Business School where the Whiz Kids in command of USAAF
Statistical Control School did their job well. First choice of assign-
ment to Wright Field and second choice to Lowry Field were rudely
discarded in favor of POE San Francisco, Thirty-two months over-
seas with a front-line fighter squadron provided travel from Australia
to Japan and everything in between. Home and faithful wife were a
most welcome sight in 1945.

Renewed banking career in Boston but sidetracked to Peoria in
same profession in 1949. Cape Cod cottage in Lincoln, Massachusetts,
cast aside for opportunities in the Corn Belt which have proven out.
Washington's Birthday is alternated with Lincoln’s birthday, how-
ever, W ith near dire consequences. Now blessed with three teen-age
sons, same faithful wife and a Dutch colonial in the country. Annual
treks back to the Maine coast renew the New England spirit and
fortify the feeling that the sprawling megalopolis with its traffic and
congestion leaves much to be desired. A twelve-minute commute,
portal to portal, makes for more time to indulge in professional ac-
tivities and extracurricular assignments with the end result that one
prays for a thirty-hour day. Contending with these, plus vigorous
young males and wondering where (or if) they will become “higher
educated” and how will it be paid for, ete., etc., telescopes the years
into short yesterdays. And so it goes...

Being in a highly regulated industry and yet competing for the
free-enterprise buck, having made both ends meet with the help of
friendly bankers to whom debt in one form or another will be
eternal, and having espoused the independent outlook characteriz-
ing the Downstate I[lini which reinforces that inherited from sea-
faring ancestors, it is disturbing to sense Uncle Sugar Able usurping
the freedoms we have so long enjoyed. From race riots to Medicare,
from TVA to Appalachia — you name it, we got it. With all due
respect to egg-head intellectuals, many of whom grace the ivy-
covered halls, it is high time the American people got back to
thinking, planning and living their own lives within a framework of
decently organized society and without running to the trough when
Big Brother rings the dinner bell. 1984 is just around the corner —
and the next twenty years will pass even more quickly.

[ 494 J

    

a NTO MR EE HELO AN ER IARE SYS OI TM n omen RT tatiana ene aati * . aa .
° 4 dqhtie Jp e fomeibe ae tat Agena: get aan tn come IRS ot Me BE Th Ff es for teks

regeier

P

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT EATON GORMAN

j
q
|
j
&

  

wig SE REIN NE ROR TE AE SEE ET ET

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2030 Fairlawn Pkwy., Schenectady, N.Y. 12309.

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Electric Co., River Road, Schenectady, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass.; Public Latin School,
Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Corinne Donnelly, Oct. 18, 1941. CHILDREN: Robert Eaton, Dec. 6,
1943; Donald Winthrop, Jan. 27, 1947; John William, March 4, 1948; Peter
Brian, July 31, 1952.

occupaTIoN: Electrical engineer, Requisition Section, Generator Division, Large
Steam Turbine Generator Dept., General Electric Company.

MEMBER OF: IEEE; Harvard Engineering Society; General Electric Supervisors
Association; Schenectady General Electric Engineering Society; Edison

Club.

LIKE most of the Class of 1940, graduation brought me face to face
with two specters: the Draft and the tail end of the depression of
the ’30’s. For a graduate with a leaning toward engineering, but
with a minimum number of engineering courses, iobs in industry
were difficult to find. However, General Electric started me in their
Street Lighting Division on the first day of August, 1940; and, except
for the war years, I have been a General Electric man ever since.

During the first months after graduation my life was pretty much
aimed at marking time until my Draft number came up. How-
ever, on learning that the Navy was desperately in need of officers
with any engineering background at all, I applied for a commission
and was accepted. I was called up in May, 1941, and spent the next
four and one-half years in various engineering assignments in the
Navy.

Although the war years were hard on many people, I must confess
that I had a relatively easy time of it. Being commissioned an officer

[ 495 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

in the U.S. Naval Reserve and put on active duty permitted me to
marry the most wonderful girl in the world on ‘October 18, 1941,
Our first son was born in the Naval Hospital at Annapolis while ]
was taking a course at the postgraduate school there. My experiences
in the Navy permitted me to go back to General Electric after the
war as a full-fledged engineer in the Generator Engineering Section
of the Large Steam Turbine Generator Department in Schenectady,

The postwar years have been very kind to me. Our family in-
creased by three more sons: Donald in 1947, John in 1948, and
Peter in 1952. We live in a white colonial house in a neighborhood
devoted to white colonial houses, large lawns and Volkswagens for
the husbands while the wives have the larger family car. We live in
an area of professional people surrounded by schools and laboratories.
Our eldest son, Bob, is now in his senior year in the Foreign Service
School in Georgetown University. Donald is a senior in Niskayuna
High School, John j is a sophomore and Peter is in his second year in
Van Antwerp Junior High.

WILBUR JAMES GOULD

 

HOME appress: 311 E. 71st St., New York, N.Y. 10021.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 200 EF. 7ist St., New York, N.Y. 10021.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, Bronx, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-41. DEGREES: 8.8., cum laude, 1940(41); M.o. (New York
Univ.), 1944.

Marriep:; Maureen MacTerman, July 26, 1956. cup: Tamara, Oct. 30, 1959:

occuPATION: Medical doctor — ear, nose, throat specialist.

oFFices HELD: Assistant clinic professor, New York University, Bellevue Medi-
cal Center Postgraduate School, since August, 1955; attending ENT, Lenox
Hill Hospital; attending surgeon, New York Eye and Ear Infirmary,

MeMsER oF: American College of Surgeons; American Board of Otolaryngol-

[ 496 ]

¥

ac

®
e
&
y
4.
t
L

%
B
®

LO i STE KIER

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ogy; County Medical Society of New York; American Board of Ophthal-
mology and Otolaryngology; Alpha Omega Alpha.

PUBLICATIONS: “Action of Dimenhydrinate and Other Drugs on Vestibular Func-
tion,” AMA Archives of Otolaryngology 53, March, 1951; “Action of
Potent Analgesics upon Vestibular Function,” Journal of Clinical Investi-
gation, 1951; “Effects of Cyclizine HCl and Chlorcyclizine HCl on Vestib-
ular Function,” AMA Archives of Otolaryngology 59; “Effect of Mecli-
zine HCl on Vestibular Function,” AMA Archives of Otolaryngology 62,
November, 1955.

TWENTY-FIVE years — a long period of time to spend working
toward a goal, and yet, this is what I have done. Since my gradua-
tion I have studied and worked in the field of medicine. At first there
were the fundamental things: medical school, internship, residency
—a further quest for knowledge. However, as with most of us, the
war turned the theoretical into the practical and 1946 saw me as a
member of the AUS Medical working as ENT section chief at Fitz-
simons General Hospital. I found this field to be challenging and
thus, in 1948, returned for another year of residency and eventually
the commencing of private practice.

But these were just the beginning steps to a ‘medical profession.
The profession requires experience and in order to glean this one
must have time. I soon found myself involved in research, teaching,
and general practice; the latter assuming greater importance and
greater magnitude each year. Since it was and is satisfying, however,
it was not arduous. In fact, my research and teaching have become
pleasant diversions in my field.

The difficulty with this type of profession, as you can guess, is its
time-consuming factor which forces one to subdue his interests in
travel, hobbies, etc. — be this good or bad. I regret that I have not
had time to pursue these further. Photography has remained my
primary hobby and, although enjoyed, I have not had the op-
portunity to develop it to the extent I would prefer. I have traveled
to some degree, but there is still a great deal of the world I should
like to explore. Simple activities such as the theater, reading, etc.,
have been grabbed whenever possible, and the advantage of living
in New York for these simpler things is great. The closeness of the
cultural world facilitates its continual enjoyment.

Nine years ago I was fortunate in marrying my wife, Maureen,
who attempts to coordinate my involved professional life with the
other facets of our existence. We have one daughter, five years old,
who has just started school, and we are looking forw ard to ‘watching
her development in this new experience.

[ 497 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

MICHAEL PAUL GRACE

  

MAILING ADDRESS: Michael P. Grace Investments, 1507 Pacific Ave., Dallas, Texas, .

THEODORE AUREL GRANGER

o PS ope eo rennin memes mag at tee tte ott

   

HOME ADDRESS: 2910 Woodland Rd., Henderson, N.C.
OFFICE apprEss: Foundation Accounts, Durham, N.C. i

prepareD AT: Classical High School, Springfield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940. =
Marrigp: Elizabeth Thompson, March 2, 1945. cHiLp: Steven T., Sept. 23, 1952: |
occupation: Vice-president, Foundation Accounts. :
pusuications: Work in reference to patents in several fields, with special in- 7

terest in high temperature chemical physics, inorganic polymerization,

stereospecific polymers, physical chemistry, related chemical and mechani-
_ cal engineering.

] AM sorry that you asked me what I have been doing these last
twenty-five years because it is difficult to answer. At any rate, it
hasn’t been dull, not one minute of it; but it is difficult to face the

[ 498 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

judgment as to whether or not one is entitled to indulge himself so,
Summarily, I guess I have just been getting ready for the next
twenty-five.

In all fairness, Harvard did give me my chance when it exposed
me to astrophysics, and if life were not so complex I would have been
able to report that I am an astrophysicist. However, this is not so,
and I have not enjoyed the absolute perfection of nature in an un-
disturbed environment (which we are currently doing our best to
spoil), but I am more of a tramp wandering through all the arts and
sciences. The bad side of this, of course, is self-harassment by the
cliché “Jack of all trades, master of none.” Nevertheless, I think we
have done some good things in widely diversified fields of science
and engineering and others, not I, have said this. Harvard persuades
that a broad education is best. No moderate, I fear that I have over-
done it to the point where I cannot even say that I am this or I am
that, and I envy those who are not so handicapped. I try to provide
leadership in undertakings in applied science and engineering, and
sometimes medicine, so that there is useful purpose and meaning to
people, and real contribution in terms of human value. We cover
wide areas of knowledge and there is much involvement with in-
dustry, research people and technical matters in many different fields.
I travel extensively. It is quite diverse and complex. I don’t imagine
most people would like so much concentration in so many. different
fields, simultaneously. I happen to like it.

However, we live pretty well and do not suffer for want of
accoutrements and the appendages and trappings of at least some
status in our social system. If we live hazardously it is because of
the all-out pursuit of some truth in science, which is a continuous
thing with us, with all such efforts representing maximum ones. To
me, Veritas is not a decoration on an iron gate. It is a life and death
struggle in the name of humanity against the forces of evil repre-
sented by a group of Ph.D.s in biochemistry who do not have enough
reason to add up two and two; hence, society suffers, people die un-
necessarily, and what has been gained on one side is lost on this side,
SO progress is zero as usual.

I have no special animosity toward biochemists. This is about the
way it is in all the sciences. All the emphasis is on the union card and
belonging to the club. The fact that they don’t know anything, can’t
do anything — this is unimportant. One creative Ph.D, in chemistry
can out-produce two hundred of the regular kind except they won't
let him, Any hope that socicty has lies in the hands of ercative people,

[ 499 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.10

FRANCIS CLARK GRANT, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 8124 St. Martin’s Lane, Philadelphia, Pa. 19118.

OFFICE Appress: Smith, Kline & French Laboratories, 1500 Spring Garden St,
Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Frances Osgood, April 5, 1942, CHILDREN: Francis Clark, 3d, May 17,
1943; Laird Irvine, March 20, 1935; Anne Draper, May 25, 1950; David
Peabody, April 27, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Lewis Grant, ’43; William Richardson Grant, °48
(deceased).

occupation: Director of corporate planning, Smith, Kline & French Labora-
tories, pharmaceutical manufacturers.
orFices HELD: Director, Community Chest, Philadelphia, 1952-53, Chestnut Hill

Academy, since 1954, World Affairs Council of Philadelphia, since 1964,
Blue Ridge Slate Corporation, 1951-53.

MEMBER oF: New York Academy of Sciences; Philadelphia Committee on
Foreign Relations; Philadelphia Club; Philadelphia Cricket Club; The

Corinthians; Northeast Harbor Fleet; The Commanderie de Bordeaux and
the Confrérie du Tastevin,; Wissahickon Skating Club.

PuBLications: “Some General Observations on Medical and Pharmaceutical

Research in the Soviet Union,” by M. Nance, F. Roll, C. Scull and F.
Grant, Journal of the American Medical Association, August, 1958.

AFTER Cambridge, enlisted in the First Troop, Philadelphia City
Cavalry, went to the University of Pennsylvania Law School until
induction in February, 1941. Discharged an OSS major five years
and two weeks later. During the same time, acquired a splendid
wife, Frances, a son “T” and a daughter Laird. In the next few years,
went from the drug business to the foreign service (Paris) and back,
settling in Philadelphia when Smith, Kline & French decided to ex-
plore the value of pharmaceutical research abroad just as I was
struck with the small financial prospects in diplomacy. Rejoined

[ 502 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SK&F to establish agreements with forcign companies. Worked at
first in Western Europe, later in Japan, Israel, the USSR and satel-
lites. Frances quite often and the children, including now a daughter
Annie and a son David, came along for skiing or sailing. Having
traveled much, vastly appreciated the improvement around the
world as President Kennedy’s efforts persuaded people abroad that
the U.S. was not whatever the worst suspicions of local tradition
thought. Between travel and work, now corporate planning, we have
sailed mostly — the Chesapeake in the spring and fall, out of James-
town or Mt. Desert in the summer, the Windward Islands in the
winter.

The children now, except for David, are away. Elder son “T” in
the Navy; elder daughter Laird a sophomore at Barnard; the
younger, Annie, at St. Timothy’s. Frances, once a chemist, i is NOW a
horticulturist and biologist.

ROBERT BENJAMIN GRAVES

 

HOME AbpRESS: 502 Purchase St., Rye, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Toro Power House, Inc., 494 Main St., White Plains, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE! A.B., 1940.

MarRieD: Alair Warner, 1947 (divorced 1959); Judith Babson Wight, 1961.
CHILDREN: Deborah Allan, April 27, 1938; Ward, Dec. 8, 1950; Debora
Read, Feb. 1, 1955; Robert Read, Nov. 28, 1962.

HARVARD BROTHER: WVilliam Grant Graves, °37.

OCCUPATION: President (and sole owner), Tora Power House, Inc. distributors
of power equipment,

OFFICES HELD: Sccuritics analyst, First Bank Stock Corporation, St. Paul, 1940-
41; general sales manager, Toro Manufacturing Corporation, Minneapolis,
1946-52; president, Toro Power House, Inc, since 1952.

MEMBER OF: Apawamis Club, Manursing Island Club, both Rye, N.Y; Pine
Valley Golf Club, Clementon, N_J.

[ 503 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

FROM graduation to the start of the war, I was a stock and bond
analyst specializing in railroad securities and reorganization plans of
the bankrupts, with the First Bank Stock Corporation in St. Paul.
When that was interrupted, I took the short course in naval training
and was commissioned ensign in the spring of 1942, and after learn-
ing a good bit about “Nets and Booms” sailed off to the Aleutians
for two years to try my luck at catching enemy submarines, but had
no particular success.

Returning from the islands, I was then put in charge of the San
Francisco Net Defenses for about six months, and during this time,
I did catch two submarines in the nets, both members of our own
fleet, however. From there, as a lieutenant, I went to the Marianas,
specifically to take charge of the defenses surrounding the anchorage
at Ulithi Atoll, and eventually wound up at Guam on ComMarianas
Staff where I remained until told to go home.

Then, checking on my prewar job, while my responsibility was to
safeguard many millions of dollars of securities in the portfolios of
some ninety banks, I determined that the salary wasn’t enough to
keep gas in the car, and I found that three friends, discharged from
the service earlier than I, had gone into the power lawnmower busi-
ness, of all things! So I joined them. A year or so later I was
married, we had children, I was general sales manager at Toro Manu-
facturing, and then in 1952 the opportunity arose to take over a
distributorship in the East, and I jumped.

My first wife and I divorced in 1959, and after being a bachelor
for several years, I married again and can report that I am not onl
very fortunate, but wonderfully happy, thanks to my lovely bride.

With the passage of twenty- -five years, golf has become increasing-
ly unimportant to me since I find my interests centered principally
around family life, a busy business and island hopping.

[ 504 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWIN ST. JOHN GREBLE, III

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 181 Thomas St., Subian, W.A. Australia.

FREDERICK DANIEL GREEHAN, JR.

 

HOME ApvpREsS: 76 Greenwood Ave., Swampscott, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 15 Court Sq., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Margaret Elinor Donnelly, Feb. 6, 1943. critpreN: Mary Jane, Jan.
12, 1944; Patricia Ellen, Jan. 8, 1946; Frederick Thomas, Jan. 31, 1948;
Martha Jean, Jan. 8, 1949; Richard John, Jan. 24, 1950; Barbara Marie,
June 25, 1953; Kathleen Margaret, March 22, 1957.

OccuPATION: Supervisor of vocational rehabilication, Massachusetts Division
of the Blind, Boston.

OFFICES HELD: President, New England Chapter, 1955, Massachusetts Chapter,
1956, National Rehabilitation Association; financial secretary, Swampscott
Council No. 3856, Knights of Columbus, since 1960.

THE twenty-five years to high school graduation seemed longer than

[ 505 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

the same span to college graduation. Life has been very good to me
and I thank God for that.

Our seven children keep my wife and myself busy to the utmost
every minute. Even though they are a tremendous amount of work
they seem to give purpose to a man’s life.

I feel that my Harvard education was most worthwhile. My two
sons will not be attending Harvard — chiefly for financial reasons.
For me the Alma Mater has gone beyond my ability to pay. And
frankly, the thought does not bother me.

Ten years ago we moved to Swampscott since we loved the ocean
in the summer. We have discovered that its many moods are a joy
to watch in the other seasons as well. Hope I never have to leave it.
Swampscott is a small and delightful town of 13,000 — twelve miles
northeast of Boston. It offers a full life of educational, business,
social, religious, and fraternal interests. It is a healthy place to raise
a family.

My work in rehabilitation of blind persons has been very satisfy-
ing (except i in a financial way). It is a real challenge to try to help
seriously disabled persons help themselves to productive, independent
lives.

My hobbies have been ten-pin bowling and golf. The big ball with
the three finger holes offers fine winter recreation. My interest in the
small white ball on the golf course is declining.

I feel that the ecumenical movement among the various religions
offers great promise for the future. We have seen vast changes in
twenty-five years with Cardinals Cushing and Bea welcomed at
Harvard and Billy Graham similarly greeted at Boston College.

People talk about corruption in government. And it is a serious
problem. However, the corruption is just as prevalent outside of
government in business and everyday life. The answer to this prob-
lem will not come easily — it will take a moral regeneration.

In present-day society children are driven too many places by their
parents. This poor practice has been caused largely by the fact that
every modern mother drives — hence she taxies her children to and
from church, school, dancing school, football games, etc. Trying
this racket in my own family has produced negative results.

Will be glad to write a Fiftieth Anniversary Report — if God so
wills.

[ 506 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SAMUEL HENRY GREEN

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 68 W. 85th St., New York, N.Y. (Lost.)

JOSEPH GREENBERG

   

HOME ADDRESS: 1621 Channing Ave., Palo Alto, Calif.

OFFICE appREss: Palo Alto Medical Research Foundation, 860 Bryant St. Palo
Alto, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. magna cumt laude, 1940; AM. 1941;
PH.D., 1947.

MarriED: Lucille Stein, Dec. 14, 1946. CHILDREN: David W, and Martha A.
(twins), Sept, 16, 1948, Douglas A., Sept. 2, 1950; Russell S. July 28,
1953.

occuPaTION: Chief, Section on Microbiology.

MEMBER OF: American Socicty of Tropical Medicine; American Association
for the Advancement of Science; New York Academy of Science; Society
for Experimental Biology and Medicine; American Ethical Union; Na-
tional Audubon Socicty.

PUBLICATIONS: Ninety-seven scientific papers and one book (co-author).

[ 507 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

IN two years following graduation I satisfied residence requirements
for a PhD.. getting an AM. in passing. For nine months I worked
for the TV A and USS. Public Health Service doing malaria control
in war areas, Then I jomed the Navy as an ensign in the Medical
Corps specialists and was assigned to the Second Marine Division
for epidemic control. Which occasionally I did. I was with the
Division in the battles of Tarawa and Saipan-Tinian and was pointed
out in Jate 1946 as a lieutenant.

Following World War II, I was a pre-doctoral fellow of the U.S.
Public Health Service. Harvard permitted me to do my research
for my thesis m absentia at the National Institutes of Health. I
received my Ph.D. in 1947 in biology. Just prior to my receiving
my degree, I was commissioned in the U.S. Public Health Service as
a senior assistant scientist doing research at NIH in therapy of malaria
and other tropical diseases. In 1958, twelve years after joining NIH
and having aged into a scientist director, I left to see how the non-
government world lived and to reside in California. | had spent one
year (1955-56) in Berkeley as a senior research fellow of the
National Science Foundation and acquired, among other things, a
strong taste for the San Francisco Bay area, (The back and forth
movement across country was done camping.) My first job in
California was with Stanford Research Institute (1959-61), which I
left for my present position at the Palo Alto Medical Research
Foundation. My work is almost exclusively research in genetics and
radiation biology and it, along with me as a career investigator, is
supported mostly by Public Health Service funds. So I'm still not
quite sure how the non- governmental world lives — or that it even
exists.

Somewhere along the way I acquired a wife and four children —
one or two at a time. All that cross-country camping conditioned
us to apartness, so there are six individualists, five rugged and me,
occupying a California togetherness home with two cars, both pur-
posely too small to hold more than three at a time. The children
have added sharp tongues to their armature of sharp knees and
elbows, all maternal traits. None of the brood appears headed for
Harvard, though my daughter (sixteen) will come closest, having
enjoyed walking around Harvard Square on a trip east last summer.

I think she said she enjoyed boy-watching the most, but I’m not
sure at that season and her age whether the boys were from Harvard
or Cambridge High School.

Politically, I believe in the democratic system and especially

[ 508 ]

ed

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

strongly in the two-party system; so strongly, in fact, that I have
never knowingly voted for a Prohibitionist, Socialist, or even a
Republican.

My religion is Humanism, a form of Scientism with a heavy over-
lay of the faith mystique. I believe in individual conscience but I am
not yet ready for Walden. Man may eventually, if he doesn’t al-
ready, control his own evolution, but I’m worried about the direc-
tion, which seems to be toward extinction. Which I reject on the non-
humanist grounds that I am a coward.

I’ve discussed politics, religion — that leaves what? What was
that other thing we used to discuss?

HERBERT THOMAS GREENE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 223 Cassatt Rd., Berwyn, Pa.

OFFICE apprEss: Armstrong-Doyle Co., New England Mutual Life Insurance
Co., IBM Bldg., Philadelphia, Pa. 19103.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938, 1939-I94I. DEGREES: A.B. 1940(41)3 C.L.U., 1954.
MarRiED: Daphne St. John Hoague, June 25, 1948. CHILDREN: Wendy, July 5,
1949; William Marston, June 12, 1951; Thomas Whiting, March 8, 1955.
OCCUPATION: Sales and service, consultant, employee benefit plans, personal

and business financial planning including life and health insurance.
OFFICES HELD: Charter member, board of governors, Cambridge (Mass.) Young
Republican Club, 1949; member, Education and Training Committee, Life
Insurance Agency Management Association, 1960-62; chairman, Mid-
_ Atlantic Training Directors Conference (life insurance companies), 1961-
62; lecturer, Insurance Society of Philadelphia, 1959-64; director, Boston
Junior Chamber of Commerce, 1949-52; chairman, Distinguished Sales-
man’s Award Committee, Sales and Marketing Executives of Philadelphia,
1964; member, board of governors, Conestoga-Woodlea Civic Association
and dclegate-member, Tredyffrin Township Civic Council; chairman,
Program Committee, Main Line Unitarian Church, Devon, Pa., 1963-65.

[ 509 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

About the same time the Insurance Company of North America
was starting a life insurance company, and I was lured to Phila-
delphia, January 1, 1958, to become director of training. This
meant wearing several other hats (there wasn’t anyone else: ad-
vanced underwriting, pensions and profit sharing, running the
schools, designing the courses, publishing bulletins etc.). Within
four years the initial effort (the new life company) ran out of
steam or wind (or money), and trimming ship eliminated me and
my operation and crew and budget. The launching was probably
too lavish anyway.

From November, 1961, to February, 1964, I was general agent
for Berkshire Life in Center City, Philadelphia, an old but small
agency of a fine old company. Having helped recruit my suc-
cessor for this job, I joined the New England Mutual, in Phila-
delphia, in order to re-establish myself, twenty-four years later in
a strange (to me) area, in personal production. I am also associated
as a quasi-parmer with the Armstrong-Doyle Company, a leader
in the employee benefit consulting field. The future, and the bulk of
my career seems to be still waiting out there, is to continue with my
professional love — personal and business financial planning and em-
ployee benefit plans. However lengthy, this seems like a very sterile
report and one of no significant accomplishment.

There are other things. Family, people and active interests. Our
hobbies, not always as active as we'd like, are: music (all), garden-
ing, beaching, fishing, hunting, sailing, skiing, tennis, eating out,
reading, discussing and—setting. And there is the community. I
remember early days with Holtie Wood as directors of the Boston
Junior Chamber of Commerce in the old Boston Yacht Club, over-
looking the harbor; sitting on little chairs in a nursery school with
Eric Witherby as we formed the Cambridge Young Republican
Club. We’ve been registered Republicans almost ever since and
have seldom run across one we could vote for.

Vacations have been chiefly in New Hampshire, partly with th
senior Whitings and partly with my parents. Dad (Professor Wil-
liam C. Greene) retired from the Classics Department in 1956, and
he and Mother moved permanently to our home in Center Sand-
wich, New Hampshire.

The Main Line Unitarian Church in Devon, Pennsylvania, a
discussion group in 1958, now has a building and grounds, a
minister and 250 families. Daphne was among those who helped
put it together and was chairman of the Religious Education Com-

[512]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mittee. J am winding up (I hope) two years as program chairman.
Before we had a minister, I had to obtain the speakers every weck.
What a wonderful gamut we ran! Professor Henry J. Cadbury,
Mayor Richardson Dilworth, Dr. Norman Thomas, Professor Caleb
Foote, Senator Joseph S. Clark, etc. And I sing in the choir. And,
like most every one else, there is the civic council and so on. Pri-
marily, this has been a life of concern and involvement, but I can’t
for the life of me figure that I have really accomplished anything
— except, of course, to acquire a wonderful family, and that was

just luck.

DAVID SUMNER GREY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 800 Jacon Way, Pacific Palisades, Calif. 90272.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Aerospace Corp., El Segundo, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Woburn High School, Woburn, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Frances N, Jones, Jan. 1, 1942. CHILDREN: Peter Munson, June 29,
1943; Sumner, March 29, 1945; Mark, June 24, 1949; Wendy, May 6, 1951.

HARVARD SON: Peter Munson Grey, 65.

occuPaATION: Research scientist in optics and related fields.

OFFICES HELD: President, New England Section, Optical Society of America,
1963.

MEMBER OF: Optical Society of America; Appalachian Afountain Club, Sierra
Mountain Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific articles, primarily in Journal of the Optical Society
of America; more than twenty-five patents in the areas of lens design,
optical instruments and optical devices,

MY professional work is much the same as it has been since grad-
uation: research in optics. The recent ditference is that now I do
my work on an IBM. 7094 computer, instead of on a mechanical
desk calculator. The “computer phase” began when I took a posi-

[ 513 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

tion at the M.1-T. Lincoln Laboratory after twenty years at Polar-
oid Corporation. After that, a year of consulting and, most re-
cently, a staff position at the Aerospace Corporation in Los
Angeles.

I do all my own programming for the computer, and find it
quite challenging to devise logical procedures whereby the com-
puter can effectively use the mass of arithmetic calculations it spews
forth at incredible speed. I am not one who foresees computers
as replacing human ingenuity and thought. My work in optics has
been primarily invention of new types of (lens) systems and instru-
ments. I do not anticipate that computers will take over this role
in the foreseeable future. It may well come about, however, that
undue reliance on computers can breed a future generation that
does not know how to invent, and does not even know when
invention is required. Indeed, it sometimes seems to me that stu-
dents today spend so much time acquiring more knowledge than
we did that they have not time left in which to learn to use it.

My Harvard education in mathematics has been a base from
which to continue — not an end in itself. It first led to a proficiency
in geometrical optics. In practising this art, I often came against
the “interface” with another field of science, and I was then often
the one who related the two in overall systems analysis. The pro-
cedure for doing this is: to reduce the interface problem to some
system of mathematics —which in our day was advanced under-
graduate but today is elementary and perhaps not so thoroughly
taught.

This past summer, with wife and two younger children, we
made the trans-continental trip to L.A. camping style. After
nearly half a century in the Boston area, I do not find the readjust-
ment at all hard to make. It is, in fact, quite pleasant to sit in the
sunshine and flowers knowing that the snow is up in the nearby
mountains where it belongs, waiting for me to ski on it, not to
shovel it. Except that we are still in our first marriage, and that
our political thinking more or less follows that of our late class-
mate, we have gone Southern Californian. The sun is passing the

yardarm on this January day, so ten steps into the swimming pool
with an hibiscus flower in my teeth.

[514]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERICK WELBY GRIFFIN

wee ey
1

  

HOME ADDRESS: 199 N. Adams St., Manchester, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Berry & Edgerly, 530 Chestnut St., Manchester, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarRIED: Ruth Brownlie Dickson, Sept. 20, 1941. CHILDREN: Barbara, Sept. 20,
1943; Frederick Welby, Jr., Aug. 24, 1947; Robin, March 11, 1950, Bonnie,
Nov. 20, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Willard Henry Griffin, ’37.

occupation: Partner, Berry & Edgerly, general insurance agency, management
and sales.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, American Red Cross Fund Drive, Manchester, N.H..,
1947; member, board of directors, Red Cross, Manchester, 1947-57; trustee,
Manchester Savings Bank, since 1952; director, Manchester Community
Services Council, since 1953; trustee, since 1958, president, 1959-61, Spauld-
ing Youth Center; trustee, since 1960, chairman, 1963-64, Brookside Con-
gregational Church; trustee and clerk of board, Elliot Hospital, since 1963.

MEMBER OF: Manchester Exchange Club; Swimmers, Inc, (local swimming and
tennis club, first president, 1956).

I’M one of those who elected to stay in the home town because of
strong roots and/or inertia and an unadventurous spirit. The war
years were the only change with the first half spent as an instructor
in ordnance in the Midshipman’s School at Abbot Hall in Chicago
and the last half as first lieutenant on an attack transport in the
Pacific.

In December, 1945, I came home with a yen (1) to stay put with
my wife and two-year-old daughter whom I didn’t know, and (2)
to be my own boss — perhaps because in the Navy I'd been boss
and bossed enough to know I would prefer to give orders on a small
ship rather than take them on a large one,

My old job in a large insurance company was waiting, but in less

[515]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

than a year I left to work in an insurance agency with the op-
portunity to be a part owner and partner. I became a partner in
1950 — with a Dartmouth man, too — and I’m still here!

We now have a twelve-year-old girl] who strums the guitar and |
takes us around New England to watch her win AAU age group
swimming events, a fourteen-year-old girl freshman ir high school
_ who keeps the phone ringing steadily, a boy at Berwick Academy,

and a daughter graduating from Smith this June — and one wife who
with no young children got bored with housework, board meetings,
and bridge. She finished the college education I interrupted in 1941
by getting her degree in 1963 and is now happily teaching school.

In the month that I’ve been putting off until tomorrow the writing
of this piece for posterity, ’'ve been mentally drawing a balance
sheet of the pros and cons of living in a medium-sized New England
town and helping to run a small business.

On the asset side: I like the small business, no big company politics,
myself to thank for the good and the bad; five minutes from home
to office; excellent cultural facilities in town and only an hour to
Boston; recreation — fishing for salmon and bass on Winnipesaukee
one hour from home—we're avid tennis enthusiasts with courts
nearby —the whole family equally avid skiers—we struggled
through those early years while the children learned and now they
are all good about taking an occasional slow run with the old folks;
the familiar faces on Main Street — knowing over many years the
painter, the barber, the grocer, the teacher, the neighbor's children
and their grandparents.

On the debit side: no time to read the paper on the commuter
train, a country boy’s stiff neck every time I get to the city and
gawk at the change in scenery since the last visit, too busy, too in-
volved in business, civic and charitable endeavors, too little time to
build on that educational foundation finished at Harvard; to solve
this in part, started a weekly breakfast group of twelve men — 7:30
to g:00 — cover about one book a month — religion, history, soci-
ology — all non-fiction. Now going into third year.

My still unachieved goal is to limit outside activities, stop rushing
from here to there, and make the time to read, to meditate, to enjoy
the smell of burning leaves in the fall, a walk in the softness of a
snowstorm — to find the time to visit an old friend of the family in
the nursing home instead of only the time to get to his funeral.

[516 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES DUNCAN GRIFFITH, III

 

HOME aAbpRESS: 3141 Barry Ave., Los Angeles, Calif. 90066.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Advisement Service, Los Angeles City Schools, Los Angeles,
Calif.

PREPARED AT: Bronxville High School, Bronxville, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; A.M. (Univ. of California at
Los Angeles).

MARRIED: Patricia Milliken, 1947 (divorced 1955). CHILDREN: David Lester,
Feb. 14, 1943; Andrew Bishop, Feb. 15, 1944 (stepsons); Jennifer Salisbury,
Dec. 31, 1947; Patricia Allen, Oct. 23, 1949.

occuPATION: Psychologist — vocational counselor, Los Angeles City Schools,
working with high school students, disabled veterans and war orphans,
junior college and adult students, etc. (last ten years).

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association; past member, American
Meteorological Society.

'T’s all different now, but when I came west in 1940 and went to
work in an aircraft plant, it seemed best to avoid mention of my
adventures at Harvard. (People out here had quaint ideas about
Harvard men.) I sensed that any such recitation would not favor my
advancement as a stockroom clerk in the spot-welding department.
I believed that there might be some things about the “real” world
that I had never been taught, ought to know, and could only en-
counter by casting off the academic mantle so recently won. I was
right.

As my enlightenment proceeded I decided to take a course or two
at UCLA just in case I might want to wear a tie at work sometime.
I timorously mentioned my Efarvard connection to the engineering
department, in due course, and was startled — and a bit hurt — to
find that my English A grades were of more interest than the
mechanical drawings so recently and laboriously completed at

[517]

Seance.

   
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
   
  
 
 
 
 
    
  

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

UCLA: they landed me a job as a technical writer, As pleasant as
this berth was, I shortly decided — “unpatriotically” according to
the plant personnel man — to leave the defense industry and join the
Air Corps. A wiser head than mine steered me into the Weather
Service, thinking to stow me safely behind the lines — it was not
intended that I should meet a Royal Japanese Marine in a tent in the
Palaus. (The damage repaired itself but they wouldn’t let me fly
thereafter because I deflected the compass.)

After the Bomb brought things to a halt, the idea of going ranch-
ing with my younger brother on the east slope of the Colorado
Rockies seemed original and refreshing. The barren mountain land
that we bought to form Greasy Creek Ranch was well adapted to
the practice of private enterprise — very private: we were free as
birds, our own bosses, bothered by no one, had no need for plumbers
or electricians, and were completely untutored in agriculture.
(Horseshoeing is easy enough to learn, but a tangled harness is more
complex than a 7090 IBM computer.)

Why didn’t that work out? Well, maybe there wasn’t enough
room for the two of us on three thousand acres of dry mountain
pastureland . . . and there was this girl. . . and, besides, they don’t
talk much in the mountains — and I like to talk. So, I came back to
Los Angeles, a married man, and went to UCLA — it was a little
place then—and I spent a lot of time learning to be a clinical
psychologist, a quaint thing to try to be since nobody knew exactly
what that involved — but, at least, it involved a lot of talk. And

after taking a lot of courses and doing a lot of internships and getting
psvchoanalyzed, I ran out of money. So then I went to work.

This was a little troublesome at first, what with the wife taking off
at about the same time and leaving me with her two boys and “our”
two girls, It was also awkward having to act like a vocational
psychologist when I had not been trained in that speciality. For-
tunately, the job involved a lot of talk and was, perforce, compatible
with my temperament —so compatible that I’m still at it ten years
later, (It is, of course, a bit ironic that anyone as divorced from the

world of work for as long as 1 was should be a vocational counselor,

but that is the way of professional life.)

It is now quite de rigeur to be one of the west coast representa-
tives of Harvard, and I find myself increasingly less diffident about
mentioning the connection. Thoreau is enjoying a renaissance
amongst the teen-age set —he’s regarded as a sort of ninetcenth-
century James Dean —and I find it handy to be able to claim a kin-

[518]

me

—~_1

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ship with him, however distant it may be. It is also helpful in coun-
seling recalcitrant young rebels to be able to refer to Harvard’s lenient
grade policy for the holders of scholarships; many other institutions
still seem to feel that the best way to motivate the young is to stress
grades and entrance examinations. It is good to see that Harvard
continues to search for more meaningful forms of motivation. So

do I.

DAVID LAWRENCE GROVE

4
fos te Straits abindeiewleatte, «ew alee dt el

 

HOME AppRESs: 142 West End Ave., Apt. 20oP, New York, N.Y. 10023.

OFFICE appress: Blyth & Co., 14 Wall St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., #2agna cum laude, 1940; A.M. 19423
M.P.A., 19423 PH.D,, 1952.

MARRIED: C. Lois Pawlowski, May 13, 1942. camp: Carolyn Anne, Aug. 22,
1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alden Robert Grove, ’44, M.B.A, 48.

OCCUPATION: Economist and banker.

MEMBER OF: Commonwealth Club of California; San Francisco Committee on
Foreign Affairs; Kusamura Bonsai Club; Phi Beta Kappa; American Eco-
nomic Association; San Francisco Symphony Foundation; Harvard Club
of San Francisco.

PUBLICATIONS: A number of articles, including: The Federal Reserve System,
Chapter 8, “Selective Credit Controls,” edited by Herbert V. Prochnow,
Harper & Brothers, New York, 1960; “Central Bank,” in most recent two
editions of Encyclopaedia Britannica, “The Objectives and Potentialities of
Monetary Policy in Underdeveloped Countries,” volume II of Financial
Institutions and Monetary Policy, published by Economic Development
Institute of the International Bank for Reconstruction and Development,
Washington, D.C., 1961; “Central Bank Independence and the Government-
Central Bank Relationship,” Economic Development Institute of IBRD,
ibid.; “Latin America’s Postwar Inflation and Balance of Payments Prob-

[519 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

lems,” with Gerald M. Alter, Federal Reserve Bulletin, November, 1948;

The Role of the Banking System in the Chilean Inflation, Staff Papers of
the International Monetary Fund, September, 1951.

IF any single word were to be chosen to describe my life since
leaving Harvard, it would be “movement”: from East to West, and
now back to the East again; from government to private enterprise
to quasi-government and now back to private enterprise; and travel-
ing and working in many parts of the world.

The first ten years were spent in Washington, D.C.: two years
with the OSS during the war, and the rest with the Federal Re-
serve Board. My principal activity for the Board seemed to be
foreign assignments advising underdeveloped countries on central
banking and other financial matters, including the drafting of legisla-
tion in many cases. In one country, a revolution occurred im-
mediately after the President had conferred his nation’s highest
civilian decoration on me, and the President had to flee. The leader
of the military junta that took over wrote a letter to the press giving
ten reasons why the revolution was necessary. Reason number nine
was the proposed banking legislation I had helped draft. (I was
vindicated subsequently, however, because the new regime enacted
my proposals nine months later without modification.) The work
in Latin America led to an invitation to help the Philippines prepare
legislation to establish a central bank, and, after that project was
completed, I spent a year (1949) in Manila with my wife and infant
daughter, helping the new Central Bank through its period of
organization and initial operation. It was a wonderful experience.

In 1952, I was enticed to move from Washington, D.C., to San
Francisco, to become associate economist of Bank of America. Some
months Jater I became chief economist. My foreign assignments
continued; some were of the earlier advisory sort and some were
purely on bank business—in Europe and Japan, as well as Latin
America and Southeast Asia which had been my principal areas of
travel formerly. In 1959, 1 was transferred to the International Re-
lations Department as a vice-president, and in 1960 I was put in

charge of that department. In 1961, I “went domestic” and was ap-
pointed head of the Government Bond Department.

Early in 1962, I was invited to return to central banking as vice-
president and economic adviser of the Federal Reserve Bank of San
Francisco. But now, two pleasant years later, an Opportunity in in-
vestment banking in New York is in the process of drawing me back
East, where I will be vice-president and economist of Blyth &

[ 520]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Company. Here I plan to stay, because this new position offers the
combination of challenges and interests 1 have sought.

We shall miss our three-acre country place in Woodside, Cali-
fornia; we have a beautiful view of redwood-forested mountains,
five deer and many quail which reside in our woods, and an ideal
climate. We will also miss our excursions to the High Sierras to
gather gnarled and dwarfed trees for my bonsai collection, and most
of all, we will miss the many friends we have made in this extro-
verted part of the country. But the East has its charms, too.

As for our “social, political, or religious convictions,” I would say
they have been tempered by our travels and many exposures to other
cultures. We believe that only a society in which all major groups
of its members have faith in its justice, and optimism about their
future in it, can endure and prosper. We regard churches as having
a special responsibility to persuade the doubtful and the apathetic
about the need of having a social conscience as well as a private one.

JAMES HEDGCOCK GROVER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 63 Norwood St., Sharon, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Roberts, Cushman & Grover, 31 Milk St, Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: 8.B., 1940; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1947.

MARRIED: Helene Zimmermann, 1951; Carolyn M. MacKinnon, 1961, CHILDREN:
James Warren, Jan. 9, 1954; David Hedgcock, Aug. 29, 1956; Robin Lee,
March 5, 1963.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Stuart Grover, "44, AM. '52.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Brockway Director Corporation, 1955-57, Marion
Electrical Instruments Company, 1957-59; treasurer, The Fly Casters,

[521]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940
1960-64; consultant, Miramichi Salmon Association, since 1962; secretary-
treasurer, Cooper Pond Club, since 1963.

MEMBER OF: Boston Bar Association; Boston Patent Law Association; The
Fly Casters, Cooper Pond Club.

LAW school was interrupted when I joined the Navy in 1942.
With the hope of extending an engineering background for patent
law, I applied for radar duty. My first assignment was to run a bus
line carrying civilian workers to Pearl Harbor Navy Yard. After
a few months an exasperated commanding officer released me to
radar maintenance school, and eventually I was of some use direct-
ing greater talent in the repair and installation of shipboard elec-
tronic equipment at Guam. The four years’ exposure to motors,
selsyns, magnetrons and pulse electronic circuits was invaluable
when I finished law schooling and began patent law practice just
as postwar research turned to such civilian products as television.
Jock Armstrong represents to me the sad price paid for my benefit.

The flow of invention in electrical fields continues to keep me
scrambling between deadlines and treats me to associations with
bright geniuses of research and management. Most of the inven-
tions which I must translate into an obfuscating legal jargon individ-
ually have an absorbing novelty.

While displaying this devoted involvement in work, I have always
been fascinated with the animals and plants of the New England
woods and lakes, and steal from work many hours to enjoy them,
particularly by fly fishing. In 1949 I held angling licenses in New
York, four New England states and two Canadian provinces.

Thus was marriage delayed until after the Tenth Reunion. Now
my first chance has become a statistic, and I have had the unde-
served luck to marry my love forever and move with our baby
girl to a home in the woods, There I transplant wild flowers and
shrubs and mow an expanding lawn, with less frequent trips to a
fishing camp on Lake Winnipesaukee, New Hampshire, and rarer
visits to New Brunswick’s salmon rivers,

1 am not so domestically tranquilized as that sounds. Once a
Dartmouth type challenged me somewhat fiercely to say what
Harvard had done for me. My answer was that Harvard had
equipped me to appreciate the varied talents of other men and to
understand and enjoy their works and the experiences of life, Not
pompously, I mean to say that I continue reading theoretical sci-

ence, natural and political history, help raise money and support
for conservation and sports organizations, at times sing a second

[ 522 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

bass or what’s needed, play with problems of number theory, once
recruited a promising athlete for the college, and make electrical
and mechanical repairs to anything, all with an interest which I can
trace to some Harvard stimulus.

ROBERT LOMBARD GROVES

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2005 Chestnut Hills Drive, Cleveland, Ohio 44106.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Warner & Swasey Co., 5701 Carnegie Ave., Cleveland, Ohio

44103.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Rosamond L. Hamlin, Oct. 18, 1941. CHILDREN: Robert H., Feb. 18,
1945; Rosamond P., July 25, 1949; Frances L., Sept. 30, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Laurence Knight Groves, ’44, M.D., "46.

OCCUPATION: Manager, export sales, machine tool business, following sales
work in various cities for the same company since 1940.

WHEN the Republicans-for-Johnson sticker on our windshield
brought on my first lecture from a friend about the dangers of
liberal extremism, I realized again how seldom we expose differences
of opinion in our professional and social relationships. We seem to
have reversed the accepted tendency of old grads to turn more con-
servative, when we moved back to Cleveland and bought a house in
an inner suburb within a ten-minute commute of the shabby center.
In five years we have gotten fairly involved in civil rights activities,
working toward desegregated churches and neighborhoods. Our
factory, by the way, was completely desegregated in all skilled
machinist jobs when I moved back.

Before this last move, we always lived in the far suburbs, lightly
touched by social conscience, but the symptoms probably started

[ 523]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

about ten years ago when I converted from lapsed to active parish-
joner under a strong preacher at Cranbrook near Detroit.

Between Detroit and Cleveland came a three-year assignment in
Furope. Traveling from Paris in a territory stretching from Stock-
holm to Athens, should a salesman worry about anything? The
whole family turned professional tourist. Five years later, we’re still
pretty nostalgic and probably won't ever fully recover.

RALPH LIVINGSTONE GUSTIN, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 11 Southgate Rd., Wellesley, Mass. 02181.

OFFICE apprEss: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley St.,
Boston, Mass. 02117.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1940; LL.B. 1943 (47).

marriep: Margaret McAfee, Oct. 15, 1949. CHILDREN: Ralph Livingstone, 3d,
March 16, 1952; Nancy Gail, Oct. 3, 1953 (died April 23, 1955); Lisa
Joan, Feb. 14, 1958, Roger McAfee, Dec. 30, 1959.

occupation: Lawyer; vice-president and general counsel, John Hancock Mutual
Life Insurance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary and director, United Fund of Greater Boston, since
1957; Town Meeting Member, Wellesley, since 1957; various in charitable,
civic and alumni organizations.

MEMBER oF: American, California and Boston Bar Associations, Association
of Life Insurance Counsel, Harvard Club of Boston, Wellesley Country
Club; Wellesley Club, miscellaneous alumni and civic organizations.

pusications: Financing by Contract and by Lease, 1957.

MY almost exclusively New England existence (principal excep-
tion; summer of 1939 in Europe) ended after one year at Harvard
Law School in August, 1941, with the call to the colors. During
almost five years in the service, including thirty months overseas,
1 saw enough of the South, the West and the South Pacific to

[ 524]

i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

realize that there was much besides Indians beyond the Hudson.

Although I thoroughly enjoyed the warm hospitality of the South-

erners, 2 brief stop in San Francisco while enroute to the South

Pacific gave me a memory of beauty, vitality, charm and coolness

that I often fondly recalled during those long, hot endless days in
the tropics. So after returning to finish law school and there hear-
ing Tommy Cochrane advise: “Men, go practise where you want
to live,” I did just that and went to practise law ina large firm in
San Francisco in 1947. There I lived in Pacific Heights and on
Russian Hill the life of the gay, not quite so young, bachelor and
then on Telegraph Hill the early married years, with a story-book
apartment overlooking the Bay Bridge. But charming as it all was,
the birth of a son called to my attention that I was not eradicating
my personal poverty with all deliberate speed. I promptly notified
my employer that I could not await firm progress and therefore
was leaving but didn’t know where I was going. A quick recheck of
the compass to determine where next best to live made clear that
if not San Francisco, then, by all sound tests, it ought to be Boston.
By fortunate happenstance I came to my present firm in 1953.

Once in the Boston area I became a determined suburbanite,
engaged, like many I sav, in a lot of frenetic activity, until I found
myself more out than in, tired, and devoid of contemplation. This
led to a deliberate pruning and more thoughtful selection, with
an eye to some reasonable relation to inherent energy level and
genuine interest. Job and family responsibilities have steadily in-
creased, requiring even more careful husbanding. As a late starter
in procreation, I find non-business time is heavily taken by small
children, but I continue to devote a fair share of time to charitable
and civic projects.

I can’t say that if I had the past twenty-five years to live over |
would do the same again; rather I would prefer to profit by my
experience and make some changes. Specifically, among “other
things, I believe I should have been more politically active. I have
no hesitation in anticipating that the next tw enty-five years can
be potentially happier than the past twenty- five, partly owing,
it must be admitted, to changes in my own philosophy as to life's
objectives. Please see our Fiftieth Reunion Report, God willing.

[ 525 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

FRED MELAD HADDAD

     
 

CELE ENGR? MONE OIE ECR MSO AMY:

cere item geen

©, amma j.

 

yp

HOME appRESS: 36 Ford St., Ansonia, Conn.

OFFICE appress: 156 Main St., Ansonia, Conn.

PREPARED aT: Ansonia High School, Ansonia, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1943;
M.P.H. (ibid.), 1958.

MARRIED: Nancy Crean, Aug. 25, 1945. CHILDREN: Frederick Martin, Sept. 14,
1946; Robert Alan, Feb. 19, 1948; Kenneth Crean, Feb. 8, 1951; Nancy
Ellen, July 14, 1952.

occuPATION: Medicine — general practice.

OFFICES HELD: Medical examiner of Ansonia, since 1946; school physician for
Public Schools of Ansonia, since 1961; police surgeon, Ansonia Police
Department, since 1947; surgeon for several of the volunteer fire depart-
ments of Ansonia.

MEMBER OF: New Haven County Medical Society (since 1945); Citizens’
Action Committee, Ansonia; Yale Graduate Club; Harvard Club of
Southern Connecticut; Ansonia Police Pistol Team.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I attended Yale Medical School, receiv-
ing my M.D. in December, 1943. Then an internship at Grady
Hospital, Atlanta, and Waterbury Hospital, Waterbury, Connecti-
cut. In the fall of 1945 I both married and began in general prac-
tice in my home town of Ansonia, Connecticut. Since then I’ve
been fortunate in being able to build a rather large practice and,
for the most part, enjoying my work immensely.

During the year 1957-58 I attended Yale Medical School and
received my M.P.H. (Master’s in Public Health), following which
I returned to my practice.

Early in my career, 1 became disenchanted with the stock market
as a form of investment, and turned to real estate. This was a
fortunate choice for me in that I enjoyed the many challenges
presented with this form of investment, in addition to the very

[ 526]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

handsome financial rewards which have resulted. My confidence
fifteen years ago that the inflationary spiral would continue pro-
vided the basis for my headlong plunge into real estate investment.

At our sixth-year Reunion I recall being impressed by the happy
and friendly spirit present among the members of the 25th-year
class and now I also find myself looking forward with pleasure
to our Reunion in June, 1965.

ARTHUR LLOYD HADDEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Woodland Ave., Mountain Lakes, N.].

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarrieD: Marilyn L. Duerr.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Gavin Hadden, Jr., 38; David Hadden, ’42; John Lloyd
_ Hadden, *45.

OCCUPATION: Business consultant.

[527]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

* WILLIAM ALVERO HAINES, JR.

 

BORN: Jan. 30, 1916, Troy, Ohio. parents: William Alvero Haines, Blanche
Bausman. ,

TRANSFERRED FROM: Northwestern University, Evanston, IIl.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1938.

marrigD: Elizabeth Montross, Sept. 19, 1942, Troy, Ohio.

piED: July 23, 1959, Troy, Ohio.

WILLIAM ALVERO HAINES, JR., was not heard from since
the time of our Sexennial Report when he wrote that he was asso-
ciated with a manufacturing company in Hollywood, California,
and planned to organize the Haines Manufacturing Company to
manufacture a shaving gadget he had developed during the war.
He had previously been associated with several companies engaged

in the manufacture of aircraft hydraulic equipment. He was survived
by his wife.

{ 528 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PAUL JOHNSON HALDEMAN

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 119 Coolidge St., Brookline, Mass.
PREPARED AT: University City High School, University City, Mo.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; A.M. 1942.
OCCUPATION: Consultant — religious education (United Church of Christ).
MATERIALS engineer, Pratt & Whitney Aircraft, East Hartford,
Connecticut, 1943-44. U.S. Department of State, Division of Philip-
pine Affairs, 1944-45. Vice-consul of the United States of America,
Manila, 1945-47. Free-lance writing, New York, 1948. Vice-presi-
dent and general manager, Cauman & Pfeufer, Inc., Boston (adver-
tising), 1949-51. Vice-president and treasurer, Haldeman & Schind-
ler, Inc., Boston (advertising, graphic design), 1951-55. Resided in
Rome, Italy, 1955-59. Consultant to the United Church of Christ
(audio-visual production in connection with the publication of the
new church school curriculum by the U.C.C.), since 1959.
Hobbies — classical music (listening and amateur pianist); garden-
ing; art collecting (on a modest scale).
Social, political and religious convictions — still in the process of

formulation.

[ 529 ]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

CHARLES BEWICK HALL

 

HOME AppRESS: 27 Mfonument St., Concord, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 18 Walden St., Concord, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LL.B. (Univ. of Virginia), 1947,

MARRIED: Susan Booth Strange, Oct. 16, 1942. cHiLp: Charles Bewick, Jr., March
15, 1944.

HARVARD BROTHER: Louis Hall, ’33.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: President, Concord Community Chest, 1957-60; trustee of Town
Donations, Town of Concord, Mass.
MEMBER OF: Sandy Bay Yacht Club, Concord Rotary Club.

AFTER graduation from college I entered the law school at the
University of Virginia and spent two years there. In 1942 the law
school closed down, so I took the opportunity of acquiring a son.
Most of the Navy time was spent in the Pacific with a short stay
in Japan after hostilities ceased. Upon discharge made a try in the
manufacturing business, but it didn’t appeal. So back to law school
to get my degree. It has been mostly law since, general practice.

Summers we spend in Rockport, Massachusetts, where my son
allows me to sail with him.

[ 530}

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JERRY PENNYWELL HALL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2500 N.E. 37th Drive, Fort Lauderdale, Fla,

OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O. Box 11222, Coral Ridge, Fort Lauderdale, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Charleston High School, Charleston, W. Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936, 1937-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

marRIED: Paula Causby, Feb. 10, 1951. CHILDREN: Anne Pennywell, Oct. 7,
1951; Kathryn Toney, stepchild (m. Joe Corey, Aug. 18, 1963); Jean
Toney, stepchild (7. Ray Ramsey, November, 1960). STEPGRANDCHILDREN:
Jerry Allen Ramsey, Sept. 14, 1961; Michael Edward Ramsey, Sept. 26,
1962.

OCCUPATION: Secretary and part owner —sales manager, manufacture and sale
of lumber; associated with retail lumber yard in Long Island City, N.Y5
real estate in Florida.

MEMBER OF: Edgewood Country Club, Assembly Club, Press Club, all in
Charleston, W. Va.; Celebrity Club, Toronto, Ontario, Canada.

AFTER graduation in 1940, I spent the summer touring parts of
Canada and Mexico, with Classmate Dee Thompson, who lost his
life during World War II. Decided to join the then U.S. Army Air
Corps in the fall of 1940, entered flying school in February of 1941.
Due to the apparent good judgment of my superiors, I was eliminated
from pilot training at the end of the primary term, went on to arma-
ment, officer gunnery and bombardier training. Spent twenty-six
months with B-17 bombers in England, Africa and Italy and a total
of five years in the Air Corps, leaving with the rank of major.

From 1945 until 1964, I was an employee and part owner of the
Hardwood Sales Company, specializing in Appalachian hardwoods
used in the manufacture of furniture, flooring, etc. The first few
years were spent in the wilds of southeastern Kentucky, location of
our timber and band mill. In 1949 I returned to Charleston, West
Virginia, in charge of lumber sales for the company. From then on

[531]

a TTT 5. , ht ulllnanadaetaenaepaimanaa ii, aaaagyii

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

my time was pretty well divided between working in the home office
and traveling parts of the eastern United States and Ontario, Canada,
in connection with lumber sales. I was also associated with two retail
lumber yards in the New York City area, now owned and operated
by my brother. In 1962 I liquidated my interests in these concerns
but continued on in a sales capacity with the Hardwood Sales Com-
pany. Our big move came in the summer of 1964 when we moved
lock, stock and barrel to Fort Lauderdale, Florida. I am now
entering the real estate field, investment and sales.

oo On the political side, I remain a Republican, fear for the socialistic
trends in government from local levels to state and national. I have
seen with sorrow unions stamping out the relative small business man
and the loss of jobs that accompany this. Internationally, things
could not be much worse in my opinion.

We look forward to the 25th, having attended all 1940 Reunions
on the five-year basis, and extend greetings to all.

+s RODERICK STEPHEN GOODSPEED HALL

 

BorN: April 12, 1915, Peking, China, PaRENTs: Ray Ovid Hall, Gertrude
Goodspeed.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938.

piep: Feb. 20, 1945, at Bolzano, Italy.

ENTERING the Army as a private in September, 1941, Hall at-
tained the rank of lieutenant and after service in Oregon and
Virginia went with the Office of Strategic Services in Washing-
ton, where he made plans for OSS work in the Alps. He went
overseas in March, 1944, and was director of a school for training

[532]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OSS men in North Africa. Requested to blow up the Cortina
Railroad, he was betrayed by one of his own men, taken prisoner
and tried and murdered on February 20, 1945. He was survived

by his mother, Mrs. Gertrude (Goodspeed) Hall Morrill.

MOSES DEERING HALLETT

  

SUSE ORRIN

  
  
 

LONE ERSTE AAD FEN

HOME ADDRESS: 345 Yorkshire Rd., Rosemont, Pa. rgoro.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bell Telephone Co. of Pennsylvania, 1 Parkway, Philadelphia,
Pa. 19102.

PREPARED aT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., Cum laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Jacqueline Giles, March 24, 1945, Egham, Surrey, England. cHmpren:
Michael Philip, Sept. 20, 1946; Nicholas Gilman, Nov. 21, 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Brewster Hallett, °37.

occupation: General Personnel manager, Philadelphia area, Bell Telephone Co.
of Pennsylvania.

PRESUMABLY, I am not alone in feeling absolutely appalled at the
thought of trying to explain what I have been doing (or not doing)
for the last twenty-five years, I find it incredible that it has been
twenty-five years since graduation and I am quite sure I have little
or nothing in common with myself of that time. It rather looks as if
I have been too busy surviving to notice what has been going on al-
though the time has passed quicky and — mostly — pleasantly. I have
touched the normal bases: four years in the Navy; involvement in
various P.T.A.’s, Little League, civic associations and the like; voted
in every election; rung doorbells; made some friends and some
enemies and some mistakes. Net result: I have a wife I adore, I am
proud of my two sons, my job fascinates me and I hope I'm ready for
the next twenty-five.

RERE RS

 

[ 533]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

PHILLIPS HALLOWELL

 

HOME appress: Walpole Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: \fassachusetts General Hospital, Boston 14, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; M.D, 1943.

MARRIED: Jane Cochrane, March 15, 1953. CHILDREN: Sarah Wharton, Sept. 2,
1955; Phillips, Jr., June 25, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHERS: John White Hallowell, ’31, M.p.a., 734, Roger Haydock
Hallowell, ’33.

occuPaTIoN: Anesthesiologist, Massachusetts General Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Intern in surgery, Children’s Hospital, Boston, 1944; first lieu-
tenant and captain, Medical Corps, A.U.S., 1945-46; intern and assistant
resident in surgery, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, Boston, 1947-48; resident
in anesthesiology, 1950-55, assistant in anesthesia to assistant anesthetist to
associate anesthetist, 1955-64, Massachusetts General Hospital; assistant in
anesthesia to instructor to clinical associate in anesthesiology, Harvard
Medical School, 1955-64.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
Massachusetts and New England Societies of Anesthesiology; American
Board of Anesthesiology (diplomate); American College of Anesthesiology
(fellow); Dedham Country & Polo Club; The Buzzards Yacht Club (com-
modore since 1963); Ski Club Hochgebirge.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles pertaining to anesthesiology in medical journals.

TO me the one great realization is that twenty-five years is a short
time. The past twenty-five have passed quickly, too quickly. I re-
member well my father’s 25th, and thought at the time how ancient
his classmates seemed. Right now I don’t feel ancient and would
like to disagree with those who say that the most productive years,
the years of original thinking, etc., are over at thirty-five. The days,
seasons, years are far too short to do everything, see everything and
accomplish what we want to do.

The first years out of college were years of discipline — medical

[534]

SNR

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

school, internship, service with Uncle Sam, then postgraduate train-
ing in surgery and then anesthesiology. For me there was a period
of reversal, of marking time, because of ill health. Much was learned
and gained, however, during enforced quiet times at Saranac Lake.
They were times of reflection not without frustration. However,
when activity was resumed I had acquired a bride, new hobbies, new
enthusiasms, better judgment and a realization of how lucky I was
to have a profession of absorbing interest to work at.

Now, twenty-five years after leaving Cambridge, I am happily in-
volved in a rapidly expanding specialty of medicine, anesthesiology.
The limits of the specialty are not as yet defined, which increases its
interest. As is true in so many fields, Harvard and the Massachusetts
General Hospital are in the thick of the developments — a good life.

Jane and I, plus two rapidly growing children, live in Dover, in
the middle of twenty-five acres. Last year we added to the house,
dug a pond. We are skiing enthusiasts in the winter months, and
spend as much time as we can sailing and racing boats, both large and
small, during the summer.

DAVID GORDON HALSTEAD

v

 

HOME AppREss: 78 Birchwood Rd., Springdale, Conn,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B. 1940.

MARRIED: Virginia L. Carpenter, Oct. 19, 1946. citpreNn: Peter Gordon, June

14, 1948; Janet Ellen, June 1, 1950.

[535]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

DANIELS HAMANT

 

HOME Appress: 14 Sterling Drive, Dover, Mass.
OFFICE ApprEss: Raytheon Co., Foundry Avenue, Waltham, Mass.
preparep AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938.
aarriep: Muriel Larsen, June 13, 1941. CHILDREN: Anne, Jan. 25, 1943;
Susan, Radcliffe ’67, July 29, 1949; Daniels, Jr., June 8, 1948.
-cupATION: Marketing manager, Microwave and Power Tube Division, Ray-
theon Company.
Ices HELD: Community chairman (Medfield), Greater Boston United Fund,
1949; chairman, Community Chest, Medfield, Mass., 1950; moderator, First
Congregational Parish (Unitarian), Medfield, 1950-57.

MBER OF: Sigma Alpha Epsilon; Institute of Electrical and Electronic
Engineers; Weston Golf Club.

nications: Article, “Vendor Rating,” Electrical/Electronic Procurement,
March, 1961.

ON leaving Harvard in 1938, I went to work peddling home
vation for Johns-Manville. In the fall I enrolled at Boston Uni-
ity (nights) and continued to work. Neither was greatly
arding, and the net result was a serious illness the following
ig. After a slow recuperation I held numerous jobs of short
tion: selling neckties at Lord & Taylor; promoting Pepsi-Cola
/estchester and on Long Island; jerking soda in a Greenwich
ge drugstore (it was also a front for bookmaking); checking
tory (millions of ladies’ hats) and selling (mostly men’s under
) at Jordan Marsh,

ally, in late 1940, I wound up in manufacturing with nN
I Laren (the any. On June 13, 1941 (Friday), | met
" business in Jul ee and Wellesley 42). Sagamor’ Com-

y. landed a job with Arden-Rayshine °

[ 536]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ssachusetts, in Au T i

of Watertown, Massac ; gust. The following June
any ought a house in Waltham. Arden-Rayshine folded ic July.
1b egins tO look like I’m bad news. However, Raytheon hired me
as an expediter in August, but Uncle Sam beckoned in November

2.
Ot be 3oth Infantry Division provided me with an unspectacular,
put somewhat frightening military career, From the Normandy
hedgerows On D plus 6 to the St. L6 breakthrough, the debacle at
Mortain, across France, through the sometimes rapid, sometimes
heavy going of Belgium and Holland, to the stalemate at Aachen,
then winter in the Ardennes, back to cross the Roer (tough) and

Rhine (easy) rivers, and then on to Magdeburg on the Elbe where
the war ended.

Despite retrenchment and reorientation problems Raytheon
looked like a real haven to me in October of 1945. Since rejoining
the company I have progressed through a number of jobs: produc-
tion foreman (focus coils), section head (procurement and quality
control), laboratory administrative manager, division purchasing
agent, division materials manager, assistant manager — Magnetics
Operation, and, as of January 1, 1965, marketing manager of the
Microwave and Power Tube Division. So, I’m still a peddler.

From 1950 through 1956, I attended Boston University Graduate
School of Business Administration (nights) under the G1. bill.
This proved useful since I was able to apply and test theory almost
as fast as I learned it, Raytheon sent me to its Advanced Manage-
ment Course, taught by Harvard Business School faculty, during
(960 in further preparation for increased responsibility. Neverthe-
less, I still. consider my two years at Harvard the most important
part of my education.
of Media new studying for her A.M. in Spanish at the University

tO teach : x graduating from Middlebury last June. She expects
a ep i the secondary level next fall. Susan entered Radcliffe
ready P omore (from Dana Hall School) last September. She
Par Bethe Ss Mandarin, picks everyones brains, Is majoring mn
n Languages, and has an eye on the diplomatic service.

an, Ir. ic eel] Se ae
inte, Jr., is still in high school and hasn't developed any profound
Crest as yet,

Wwenty~
cessful el five years (plus) out of Harvard have produced a suc-
nar

geese, and Mage, three children, three houses, numerous dogs, cats,

an ,

Which 1 you name it we've had it; a small bank account (for
} ; 8 . ee ‘
cre Is much competition among Harvard, W ellesley, Mid-

[ 537]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940
diebury, Radcliffe, Thayer, Dana Hall, et al.); a small degree of

cosmopolitanism gained from extensive travel associated with busi-
ness; but a greater provincialism from spending most of the years
in the suburbs of Boston. We like it here.

Muriel and I remain conservative, Republican, capitalistic and
Unitarian. We support the United Fund (there should be only one
and charity should be voluntary), the political party and candidates
of our choice (the two-party system must be rejuvenated), and
education (the one most important ingredient for world peace).
Our main goal is to present the succeeding generation with three
basically happy individuals capable of making a contribution to
society, each in his own way, as we have tried to do.

DANIFL MAURICE HAMILBURG

 

HOME aDorEss: 90 Holland Rd., Brookline, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Plymouth Rubber Co., Inc., Canton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

Married: Phyllis Eleanor Boothby, Aug. 11, 1940. CHILDREN: Maurice J.,

Dec. 6, 1946; Joseph D., Dec. 29, 1948; Jane M., Nov. 27, 1951.
HARVARD SON: Maurice J. Hamilburg, 68.

occupation: President, Plymouth Rubber Company, Inc.; manufacturers of
rubber and plastic products.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Plymouth Rubber Company, Inc., director and treas-
urer, American Boxer Club.

TIME for the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report! It hardly seems
possible that the years have passed so quickly. It is a sobering
matter to reflect upon a twenty-five-year period covering the prime

portion of one’s life. For me, time has supplied a few milestones
which help to mark the passing of the years.

[ 538 ]

—

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1940: Marriage to a wonderful and unusual person, whose calm
and ever-pleasant manner has supplied me and our growing family
with a happy companionship and a steadying influence through the
years. 1946: The arrival of first son, Maurice . . . who now is in
his freshman year at Harvard. His academic achievements already
are far beyond the feeble efforts of his father, a fact which I imagine
he has long suspected, but which I herein confirm. 1948: A second
son, Joey, was born and there have been few dull days since. The
joyous enthusiasm which he brings to most every project, together
with a spontaneous wit and ready smile, continually serve to help
keep us all in a happy frame of mind. Joey today is in his third year
at Noble and Greenough School, and is striving to join his brother
at Harvard. 1951: The birth of our only daughter, Janey, com-
pleted our family group. Her early years were devoted to a con-
stant struggle to keep pace with her older brothers in their games
and sports. For awhile, her efforts in this regard seemed to have
provided us with a family of three boys. However, to the amaze-
ment of her brothers and me, she has emerged from the tomboy
stage, and now gives notice that she is ready to become the young
lady which she and her mother knew was her intention all along.
(I am informed that this is a not uncommon phenomenon in family
life.)

Somewhere along the years, about 1952, we acquired a boxer
puppy for the kids, and from that simple action we became involved
in a series of dog shows which ultimately led to a rather continuous
program of breeding and exhibiting boxers. We have bred and
raised numerous champions, and have derived much enjoyment
from our activities in this field.

Other diversions have been family ventures familiar to so many:
Cub Scouts, Boy Scouts, Little Leagues, bowling, skating, fishing
and, of course, that outstanding American pastime, the enjoyment
of spectator sports.

In business, following a few short years in the employ of the
government, I have devoted the remaining years to filling a number
of positions with the Plymouth Rubber Company, Inc, in Canton,
Massachusetts. In 1962 I became company president. The achieve-
‘ment of this position, I am told, was due to hard work, perseverance,
innate ability and family ownership, though not necessarily in that
order. The work is challenging, but I do enjoy every minute of it.

My contact with the College and with members of the Class has
been all too limited, though it has been pleasant residing within

[ 539]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

MTA distance of Harvard Square. Football reunions in the fall,
occasional visits to Cambridge, with now and then a stroll through
the Yard, all have served to help recall the past and to slow some-
what the all-too-rapid passage of time.

The years have been full and fleeting. Now we are nearer to
the time when Phyllis and I will be testing, with some misgivings,
the accuracy of Ben Ezra’s prediction that “the best is yet to
be.” If our future will but match the past, we shall have little
cause to complain, and much for which to be grateful.

HUNT HAMILL

 

HOME appress: 550 Cedar St., Winnetka, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Krim-Ko Corp., 26 N. Garden St., Bensenville, Hl.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

Marriep: Jean Macon Hume, Aug. 5, 1942. CHILDREN: Stuart H. (daughter),
June 18, 1944; Ralph C., Oct. 3, 1946; Hunt, Jr., Oct. 8, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ralph Hamill, ’38 (deceased).

occupaTION: President and chief executive officer, Krim-Ko Corporation and
Bireley’s, Inc., manufacturers of flavorings and flavor bases.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman of board, Krim-Ko Corporation of Canada, Ltd., K-K
Pacific Hong Kong, Ltd.,; director and member executive committee,
National Dairy Council, director, D-K Manufacturing Company, Dairy

and Food Industry Supply Association; past president, Parents Association,
North Shore Country Day School.

MEMBER OF: Economic Club; Executives Club of Chicago; University Club of

Chicago; Indian Hill Country Club, Shoreacres Country Club, Winnetka
Caucus Committee (past member).

IT’S hard to believe that twenty-five years have passed since we

graduated . . . you know, I must be the umptcen-millionth twenty-
five-year man to make that sage observation.

[ 540 |

~~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

To most of us, these years have been fascinating if at times con-
fusing. Fascinating in the experiences we’ve had as individuals:
marrying, raising a family and finding our place in the order of
things — to make a living or a contribution to our society or both.
Fascinating also in the light of world events which have occurred
across the span of these twenty-five years.

But they’ve been confusing years too, thanks to a variety of para-
doxes we have faced. First, those which have been forced upon us
as individuals by the inadequacies of our own original, theoretical
outlook on the world and its problems . . . inadequacies which
became apparent only when we entered upon a career and had to
face up to its practical, workable side. Second, in the many more
paradoxes which the world situation has forced upon us as mem-
bers of the greatest and most powerful nation in the history of man-
kind. Paradoxes which manifest themselves in our country’s offer of
direct aid with its right hand to nations whose avowed ideology and
national purpose is to “bury” us and with whom we are openly and
actively at war with our left hand. Thirdly, in the paradoxes forced
upon us by political exigency as it has motivated men who seek
power. We are a Republic which in only eight times the number
of years since our graduation has, through freedom and individual
initiative, far eclipsed the centuries-old nations of our ancestors to
arrive at a level of living which is incomprehensible to our more
socialistic neighbors on earth. With six or seven per cent of the
world’s population, we have as much or more electrical power, de-
velopment of natural resources, goods and services as the rest of the
world combined. Yet, the free enterprise, profit motivated system
which created this abundance is on the defensive. We are told we
need new frontiers which, we are led to believe, can be found in a
panacea of governmental programs and changes which amount to
little more than a headlong rush down the road to socialism.

Asa result of these and other paradoxes, we sometimes must shake
our heads in disbelief at the workings of men’s minds. But with all,
our years have been good ones, rich with challenge and interest.
So let us pray God that we may yet leave our children free to pur-
sue their avocations and undertake their responsibilities with the same
hopeful optimism which was so much a part of each of us as, in cap
and gown, we walked through Harvard Yard, just twenty-five short

years apo.

[ 54t ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

3 SON KNAPP HARDENBERGH

 

===; 233 Water Rd, Walmer, Port Elizabeth, ==

ROBERT WARE HARDING

 

—====102 Tedesco St., Marblehead, Mass.’

a

[ 542]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

VINCENT AMBROSE HARRINGTON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 220 Atlantic St., North Quincy 71, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston College, Newton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; MBA, 1942; LLB. (Boston

Coll.), 1951.
MarRIED: Frances Garvin, Dec. 28, 1946. CHILDREN: Vincent Ambrose, Jr.,

Dec. 24, 1947; Ellen Frances, Oct. 15, 1949; Justin Lawrence, Jan. 21, 1952;
Virginia Marie, Sept. 7, 1955.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of law and finance, Boston College; lawyer;
real estate business as part owner of rental properties.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Squantum Yacht Club, five years.

MEMBER OF: Squantum Yacht Club, Quincy, Mass.

AFTER discharge from the service I looked about for a kind of
job that would allow me to go to Jaw school on the G.I. Bill and get
married. I took a temporary job of teaching accounting and eight-
een years later I am still on that job though I have moved from the
Accounting and Finance Department to the Law Department. For
the four year’s nights that I attended law school I lived a near her-
mit’s existence; I graduated in June, 1951, and passed the Afassa-
chusetts bar that summer. I began to practise law within the limits
of the academic calendar and a teaching schedule of sixteen teaching
hours a week and two evenings a week. As prospects improved I
dropped the night teaching and began to dabble in real estate. In

1958, along with a partner, I built a small apartment house which.

we shortly sold. Two years later I built two others and several years
ago formed an investment club to deal in real estate. We now ‘have
fifty-seven apartments which I hope will some day rise from the

mortgage sea and be somewhat owned by us.
We moved to Quincy in 1955 when our last child was born and I

[ 543 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

joined the local yacht club and shortly thereafter became the
treasurer for a five-year period. I have owned a number of sail-
boats and a power boat and am now having a 26-foot sloop built,
which I hope will be ready for next summer. I hope to cruise to the
World’s Fair and New York next summer. We spent some time this
last summer in Nantucket and I hope to enlarge my real estate ac-
tivities to include a piece of property on that island soon.

I have been closely attached to my Catholic religion and am now
a lector at the new type ‘community’ Mass each Sunday. I also teach
Catholic Doctrine classes to high school boys and just returned, at
this writing, from a weekend at West Point where I took 108 boys
and their adult chaperones. I am a hockey buff and have season
tickets to all the Boston College hockey games including the games
with Harvard. In the last few years they have been torrid contests.

The lives of my wife and myself necessarily revolve around the
physical, spiritual and academic development of our children. We
struggle with the children over the ‘new math,’ the advanced science
and their ‘social development.’ We have taken the children on a
trip across the country to the west coast and hope to see Europe
leisurely in the not-too-distant future,

I feel that our country needs ‘doers’ much more than it needs
thinkers at this moment. There have been enough studies of our
problems to fill libraries to the roof but the attempts at possible
solutions have been minimal. I refer especially to our housing needs
and the education of many of the students not to college-oriented
occupations but to the high-class technical fields where on the job
‘know how’ counts, The time is coming when electricians and
plumbers will be more valuable to society than doctors and lawyers,
precisely because they are ‘doers.’

The great religious and social problem which our society will
have to face before the end of the century is one of fostering a
greater respect for the individual and his rights. Our impersonal,
statistical index card emphasis to explain man and his relation to God
brutalizes each man as he loses his dignity as a person. Positive

action to restore the value of a man in society is the crowning need
of our generation.

[ 544 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EMRYS CHARLES HARRIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 287 N.E. g6th St., Miami Shores, Fla. 33138.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Miami Real Estate Agency, 1034 duPont Bldg., Miami, Fla.
33131.

PREPARED AT: Miami Edison Senior High School, Miami, Fla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

OCCUPATION: Real estate — associate; negotiate sales, leases and financing of real
property.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Planning and Zoning Board, Miami Shores Village,
trustee and chairman of executive committee, Ransom School, Coconut
Grove, Fla.; secretary, 1947, president, 1948, Bachelors Club, Miami, lieu-
tenant colonel, Corps of Engineers, U.S. Army Reserve; Army coordinator,
Armed Forces League; treasurer, Miami Chapter, Reserve Officers Associa-
tion, 1947; personnel officer, 3362d USAR Garrison, Miami; assistant
director, 1951-54, director, 1954, Engineer Branch Department, Miami
USAR School; chief, Engineer Branch, 3619th Station Complement
(USAR), Miami, 1950-51; chief, Engineer Branch, 3005th Station Comple-
ment (USAR), Miami, 1949-50; Ceremonial Greeter of American Col-
leges, Universities, Foundations and Learned Societies and Delegate of
the President and Fellows of Harvard College at the Inauguration of the
president of the University of Miami, 1953; vice-president, 1950-51, presi-
dent, 1951-54, Harvard Club of Miami; director, 1957-60, ex-officio direc-
tor, 1963-64, Harvard Alumni Association; member, Completion Com-
mittee, 1958-59, Greater Miami general chairman, 1957-59, A Program
for Harvard College, ex-officio councilor, Harvard College Fund, 1963-
64; regional vice-president, 1956-62, vice-president-at-large, 1962-63, direc-
tor, president, 1963-64, Associated Harvard Clubs.

MEMBER OF: Armed Forces League; Harvard Club of Miami; Kiwanis Club of
Miami; Miami Shores Country Club; Surf Club, Surfside, Fla.; University
Club, Miami, Fla.

I AM sure that one of the most vivid recollections of Harvard davs
fora generation of alumni surrounds the imposing figure and per-
sonality of Roger Bigelow Merriman. Each session of History I

[ 545]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

when Frisky performed was not just a classroom lecture; it was an
event! And a very dramatic event indeed! Who can forget that tall,
Dickensian frame, pointer in hand, and that squeaky, penetrating
voice, intoning, “Gentlemen, the Middle Ages were slow, Slow,
INCONCEIVABLY Slow”!

In the late thirties, as we sat listening to Professor Merriman lay
down this dictum, we were smugly confident that in our own times
things were humming along at a pretty rapid pace. Yet now, today,
twenty-five years later, the magnitude of the changes which have
taken place in the world is such that in some respects the thirties seem
almost quaint.

Change, ever more rapid, is perhaps the most significant character-
istic of the age. Thus it hardly seems profitable to do much reminis-
cing about the past quarter century when today’s dramatic headlines
are next month’s ancient history. Today thrusts itself relentlessly
upon us and tomorrow looms large ahead.

And so, today — here and now —I find myself actively engaged
in many directions, more than ever before. | find that real estate, as
a field of endeavor in Florida, offers a stimulating and rewarding
career, Participation in various community projects occupies a good
deal of my “spare” time, as do Army Reserve and Harvard Alumni
affairs. All in all I keep pretty busy.

I find life interesting and full of zest. My experience during the
past twenty-five years has led me to stop making predictions about
the furure. But I certainly can say that I] view tomorrow with an-
ticipation and not dread.

I am proud of our alma mater and of our class and I am proud of
the contributions which both have made and are making to our
nation and our society. I particularly look forward to a great and
successful reunion and the opportunity to enjoy, once again, the very
special pleasures of being with such good and old friends.

L546 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RAYMOND JESSE HARRIS

if \

   

HOME ADDRESS: 275 W. Tulpehocken St., Philadelphia 44, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Philadelphia Water Dept., Municipal Services Bldg., 11th floor,
Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: William Penn Senior High School, York, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1940.

marriED: Rosalba E. Prestianni, Jan. 7, 1950.

occuPATION: Administrative assistant to the Philadelphia Water Commissioner;
in charge of public relations for Water Department; also perform other
public relations jobs for the city.

MEMBER OF: Academy of Political Science; Philadelphia Industrial Manage-
ment Club; Harvard Club of Philadelphia; American Academy of Political
and Social Science; Germantown Community Council; Administrative,
Professional and Technical Association of Philadelphia.

PUBLICATIONS: Various brochures and other public relations materials for the
Philadelphia City Government.

WHAT have I done with a quarter-century of my life? Honestly,
I wish I could say that I had won the Nobel prize, or had ridden the
first rocket to the moon, or had shaken the hand of Winston Church-
ill. There can be no such gilding, however, for this simple biography.

Most of my postgraduate life has been lived at the expense of the
U.S, taxpayers who have borne it with nostalgic patience.

It began with three years of free travel (1942-45) from one U.S.
Air Force camp to another, topped off with a sojourn in Algeria and
Italy. I liked Italy so well that I joined the U.S. Foreign Service in
1947 and went back there as vice consul at Palermo, Sicily. After a
few years of climbing down sulphur mines and visiting old Greek
temples (with an abundance of political and economic reporting on
the side), I married a pretty graduate of the University of Palermo.
There followed a year in Munich, Germany, where I issued visas
to an endless stream of displaced persons and German nationals.

[ 547 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Leaving the Foreign Service behind me, I accepted a position
under the newly reformed Philadelphia City Government in 1952.
In the dozen years since then (I am happy to say) it has stayed re-
formed most of the time.

Asa municipal publicist, I have planned publicity campaigns and
I have written hundreds of thousands of words, for the many im-
provement programs which the city has carried out and which have
transformed the face of Philadelphia. Currently, as administrative
assistant to the Water Commissioner, I sell water. Since I am a
teetotaler, | have no trouble believing my own propaganda.

As the years go by, I recognize increasingly the importance of the
values perpetually present in the climate of Harvard College — the
encouragement of honest, skeptical, independent thought, the empha-
sis on truth and knowledge as lifelong goals; the toleration of dif-
ferences of opinion as a social good; the search for reasonable solu-
tions to unreasonable problems; and, above all, the development of
self-reliant, responsible, ethical individualists. If the climate of
Harvard College affected more of the world outside, our globe would
be in better shape.

JAMES WILBER HARRISON

 

HOME abpress: 317 Euclid Ave., Syracuse, N.Y. 13210,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Graduate School, Syracuse University, Syracuse, N.Y. 13210.

PREPARED AT: Binghamton Central High School, Binghamton, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; A.M. (Syracuse Univ.), 1952;
PHD. (Univ. of Chicago), 1958.

MARRIED: Pauline Harrison, Dec. 24, 1941 (died July 26, 1960); Irene Eleanor
Angerstein, Feb. 17, 1962.

OCCUPATION: University administrator; executive assistant to vice-president for
academic affairs for graduate programs,

[ 548 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oFFICES HELD: Vestryman, Grace Church, Syracuse (currently),

MEMBER OF: Adult Education Association of the United States; American
Educational Research Association; American Recorder Society, representa-
tive on the Council of Graduate Schools of the United States and the
Midwest Conference on Graduate Study and Research.

puBLICATIONS: “Learning to Live in a Tower,” Adult Education, autumn, 1960;
“Designing Courses for Adults,” Adult Education, summer, 1958; “The
Climate of Curiosity in America,” Adult Leadership, November, 1957.

THE Army took the first five years and fashioned me into a per-
ennial weapons instructor at the Infantry School in Georgia. The
next five years were spent on the staff of the adult education divi-
sion of Syracuse University in Central New York. Then the In-
fantry School took another couple of years, this time calling me
an instructor in personnel management. After that I disentangled
myself from the military and went to the University of Chicago
where I spent three years studying for the doctorate. This was
followed by four years on the staff of the Continuing Education
Service of Michigan State University. The past six years have
been spent back at Syracuse University — first as head of the
branch college in Utica, and now on the main campus in Syracuse,
with the Graduate School. It is encouraging to remember that
other educators too have been peripatetic.

To add to the confusion, I have worn all sorts of disguises since
leaving Harvard — laborer, draftee, recruit, rifleman, platoon run-
ner, acting squad leader, officer candidate, weapons instructor, in-
structional team chief, professor of military science and tactics,
assistant to the dean, program coordinator, graduate teaching assist-
ant, registrar, great books discussion leader, associate dean, regi-
mental operations and training officer, instructor in personnel man-
agement, research associate, Fund for Adult Education Fellow,
conference coordinator, assistant professor of continuing education,
conference program director, chief of research, professor of be-
havioral studies, college dean, executive assistant to the vice-presi-
dent for academic affairs, in charge of graduate programs, Along
the way, the more memorable promotions were to the ranks of
private first class, lieutenant, captain, major, master of arts, doctor
of philosophy, professor, and dean.

What does all this add up to? A guy who loves to teach, and
who has had unusual experience in designing special-purpose educa-
tional programs, particularly for adults. Also a guy who has
analyzed, disassembled, restructured, and sct up long-range aca-

[ 549 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

demic goals for all kinds of university divisions — extramural,
undergraduate and graduate. A planner, designer, and teacher in
the world of higher learning. Sort of a faculty member and sort
of an administrator, but neither man nor beast really. Something
of a Joner, though not lonesome.

The places where we have lived keep coming back to mind — San
Antonio, Texas; Columbus, Georgia; Atlanta, Georgia; Syracuse,
New York; Fort Benning, Georgia; Chicago, Illinois; East Lansing,
Michigan, New Hartford, New York; and, again, Syracuse. Seven
years in the South and seven years in the Midwest have made it
seem strange to call upstate New York home.

Without children, home has tended to be small but a bit lavish.
Pauline and I were married almost twenty years. She taught me to
live in a world of beauty and sensitivity. We did everything to-
gether: the Army, the South, recorder blowing, gourmet cooking,
singing, working in the office, dancing, gardening, writing, photog-
raphy, Chicago, Michigan, Japanese . . . When she died suddenly
in a strange city, my whole world collapsed.

That year I came within an eyelash of following the same trail,
but the Harvard Medical School sent a wonder worker to the
rescue. After three major miracles, I was turned back out for a
second chance.

Irene helped paste the pieces back together. She learned her
Japanese in Berlin during the war, but I am discovering that Euro-
peans are different. Her memories of prewar life in Germany and
Poland; her tales of adventure in occupied Berlin as a member of
U.S. Military Intelligence and later of the Associated Press; her
fine collection of antique European furniture, china, paintings, and
carvings; together with the things she does to the English language,
in a lovely though now slightly corrupted British accent, all make
our home life obviously unorthodox and stimulating for all who
dare come to see. Someday I hope to learn German and take a
specially guided tour through some of the homelands. But neither
of us has actually been to Japan yet. Someday, perhaps .. .

Is there any meaning running through the whole charade? Some
of the basic pattern begins to show now. The continuity is pro-
vided by the learning process itself. From the Army I have learned
the satisfaction of living in the world of action. From the Scholars,

1 have learned the excitement of living on the frontiers of the
world of systematic thought. From Marriage I have learned the
richness of living in the world of beauty and sensitivity. From

[550]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Death I have learned how shortsighted it is to live in any of these
worlds as though they were final ends. From the Church — much
to my surprise, after my years of dodging —I have learned that
the whole point of living in these worlds is in order to love God
and my fellow men. This ts an almost unbelievable conclusion to
the quarter-century, but one that seems to fill everything with a
kind of quiet joy.

I am looking forward to our beginning the advanced course next
quarter.

MERWIN KIMBALL HART, JR.

 

HOME ADpRESS: 102 S. Main St., Nichols, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 43 Main St., Nichols, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Riverdale Country School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B, 1940; LL.B. (Cornell Univ.), 1948.

MARRIED: Marina Kmita, Dec. 18, 1948. cHitpreEN: Jonathan Kmuita, Jan. 17,
1955; Ronald Merwin, Feb. 28, 1958; Nona Maynard, May 9, 1962.

occupaTion: Lawyer; former teacher of business law and accounting.

OFFICES HELD: President, Utica Interclub Council, 1953, 1954; president, Opti-
mist Club of Utica, 1956.

MEMBER OF: Fort Schuyler Club of Utica; University Club, New York City;
Adirondack Mountain Club (chairman of winter activities, 1948-58);
Tioga County, Oneida County and New York State Bar Associations;
Optimist Club of Utica; Harvard Club of Oneida County (secretary,

1954-56). ,
PUBLICATIONS: Iwo articles published in Business Education World.

A QUARTER of a century was required to make me begin to ap-
preciate my good fortune in being in the Harvard Class of 1940.

Everywhere I encounter those who view our university as an out-of-
the-world paradise for rich men only, and I am never more sincere

[551]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

have, than to continue to conquer more. Since college days, I never
felt that Communists, the Nazis, or anyone else ever had a China-
man’s chance of conquering the world, as it would be against human
nature. In 1946 I wrote a thesis to that effect, after a study of world
power politics from most ancient times. Professor Beard wrote me:
“The history you have cited is germane and impressive.”

The thesis concluded that if the world’s population were reduced
to a thousand souls on a small island, there would still be more than
one government.

LOUIS HARTZ

 

HOME Appress: 10 Chenery Terr., Belmont, Mass,

OFFICE appress: Littauer Center G17, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Technical High School, Omaha, Nebr.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: S.B., senzma cum laude, 1940; PH.D., 1946.

MarRieD: Stella Anne Feinberg, July 3, 1943. cuitp: Steven, July 11, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Professor of government, Harvard University.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Harvard Committee on American Civilization, 1955-
58,

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Arts and Sciences; American Political
Science Association.

PugLicaTions: Economic Policy and Democratic Thought: Pennsylvania, 1776-
1860, 1948, The Liberal Tradition in America, 1955; Tbe Founding of New
Societies: Studies in the History of the United States, Latin America,
South Africa, Canada and Australia, with contributors, 1964; articles in
various political science and historical journals.

WHEN I was graduated I went to Cuba and Mexico for nearly
a year, then settled down in New York writing pamphlets for the
Council of Democracy, a brave little organization which has long
since gone out of existence. I was planning a career in journalism,

L554]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was enjoying New York a great deal, and gave little thought to an
academic life. It was due to a casual weekend back in Cambridge
that the situation changed. I was offered a chance to participate
in the work of the Committee on Research in Economic History,
a group which had just been formed under the auspices of the
Social Science Research Council. The lines of inquiry being opened
up by the Committee seemed to me so exciting that I could not
resist. I gave up New York and came back to Harvard. Ultimately
I received my Ph.D. in political science and joined the faculty of
the Department of Government where I have been teaching ever
since.

It is a legend that every Harvard class sees its own time as the
best, and it may even be true that we who inhabited the Yard and
the Houses during the thirties feel that way a bit more intensely
than others. But Joyal as I am to the old days, I have to say that
Harvard has had many glorious epochs since the time of our grad-
uation. One of them was the period immediately after the war
when the University was inundated by a flood of amazingly mature
and dedicated graduate students. I had the good luck to begin
offering courses of my own at that time, and it has always seemed
to me that there was a special excitement in the atmosphere then.
Perhaps this is one of the results of staying at Harvard as a teacher
after your undergraduate years: you have to share your nostalgia
with other classes, other times. In any case I think I have gotten
from my life at Harvard a sense of the magic which keeps it peren-
nially alive. Every age is, in fact, a “golden age.”

As a beginner in the Government Department, I taught a wide
variety of subjects, substituting for senior men on leave, filling in
regardless of what the topic might be, the American Congress or
Plato, Later I began to concentrate on courses in political theory,
and it is these that I primarily offer now. Outside the department,
however, I have participated in Harvard’s interdisciplinary effort,
which surely in recent times has been one of the most exciting
aspects of the curriculum. I have given a General Education course
in democratic ideas, which recruits students from many fields in
the College, even the sciences. I have also been associated with the
American Civilization Program, a graduate enterprise which tries
to bring together in a single doctoral scheme the various phases of
American culture. This program involves only a small band of
believing graduate students, but like General Education, i it has given

[sss]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

me an experience that I could not have found in the Government
Department itself. .

As a matter of fact, the more I work in academic life the less
meaningful the curricular distinctions seem to become. A man has
to start somewhere, to get a grip on things from some sort of angle.
But after that, | think he is bound to discover with Mr. Justice
Holmes that “everything is connected with everything else.” This
at any rate has been the experience I have had in my own scholarly
endeavors. I have been impelled to move from American economic
history to modern Europe to other regions of the world and other
historical periods.

We live in Belmont, which of course is not a large deviation from
Harvard Square. Steve is preparing for college, Stella is pursuing
a social work career, and I navigate daily to Littauer Center. We
travel as much as we can and last summer were in Mexico where,
perhaps as a fated preparation for this Report, I had a chance to

revisit the places I had seen during my first trip abroad after our
graduation.

ROBERT WHEELER HARVEY

 

HOME AppRESS: 39 Winding Way, Madison, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Prudential Insurance Co. of America, Prudential Plaza, New-
ark, NJ.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1940.

marriep: Rita J. Emmett, June 6, 1942. cHILpReN: Susan Lynn, Aug. 4, 19433
Judith Gail, March 31, 1946.

occupation: Executive vice-president, Prudential Insurance Company with
responsibility for all sales activities, for group insurance and group an-
nuities, and for planning and development.

[556]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Scholarship Committee, 1961-64, vice-president, 1964~-
65, Harvard Club of New Jersey; president, 1962-65, Hospital and Health
Council of Newark and vicinity; member, Advisory Council, Fairleigh-
Dickinson University; member, board of directors, Life Office Manage-
ment Association, Welfare Federation of Newark, United Community
Corporation (Newark).

MEMBER OF: Society of Actuaries (fellow).

SITTING down to write this sketch started a train of thought that
led me to dig out our Class Album and thumb through it. That
switched the train off on several different tracks before I was brought
back to the one I had started on by finding under my own name that
the intended vocation was “Actuary” —a finding notable chiefly be-
cause it meant that at least one intention of that happy period was
actually carried out. Further reflection on this and on the biographi-
cal data for the Anniversary Report then brought home the realiza-
tion that there are very few items among those data that wouldn’t
be different if that intention — then arrived at in most casual fashion
—had been different.

Actuaries are generally trained in and most of them work for
insurance companies; so I went to (and still work for) the Prudential
Insurance Company in Newark, New Jersey. That, of course, has
established the locations in which we have resided. And it even had
a lot to do with the identity of the friskier half of the “we” because
we met after that fateful intention brought me here.

For many years I have been grateful to the sagacious and re-
nowned faculty adviser who suggested that my accomplishments in
mathematics, as he had observed them, would serve me better in the
business world than in a more rigorous academic climate. But not
until now had I realized just how much, even including the composi-
tion of our family, stems from advice which set me on the way to
many good things, including an occupation that has consistently been
the source of much more than a regular paycheck. Thus, I view my
lot as a very fortunate one but not so eventful, I think, that much
more detail should be included in the brief accounting.

Beyond those activities that are closely associated with the in-
surance business, my chief concern these days is the complex of
problems that characterize urban living for so many people. MLy own
involvement has been mainly with hospitals and health facilities and,
more recently, in one of the most stimulating and potentially re-
warding fields of all — assisting young people who need some help
in fitting themselves for useful citizenship.

[557]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Another thing that I have thoroughly enjoyed in recent years has
been a renewed association with Harvard, through the Harvard Club
of New Jersey. Nothing I have done has given me more pleasure
than the Schools and Scholarship Committee work. If we are some-
times discouraged or even depressed by what we think we see in
prospect, I know no more effective tonic than talking and working
with the young men who may be writing sketches like this in thirty
vears OF SO.

HUGH HARWOOD

 

HOME ApprEss: 86 Waban Ave., Waban, Mass. 02168.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Harwood & Gray, 24 Milk St, Boston, Mass. 02109.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LL.B., 1943 (47).

MarRiED: Betty B. Butts, Dee, 20, 1941, CHILDREN: Richard Kistler, April tro,
1944; Peter B., Aug. 15, 1947; Ann Elizabeth, Dec, 22, 1948, John C., Oct.
13, 1950.

HARVARD SON: Richard Kistler Harwood, ’67.

occupation: Lawyer — partner, Harwood & Gray.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Newton Savings Bank; assistant secretary and assistant
general counsel (director and secretary, Drexel Furniture Company Divi-
sion), Drexel Enterprises, Inc.; director and vice-president, Chicago Belt-
ing and subsidiaries, and Alba-Wandensian, Inc.; director, Valdese Manu-
facturing Company, Frederick J, Fawcett, Inc., Carpenter Morton Com-
pany, Penn Associates, Inc., director and vice-president, Tanners Trading
Company, American Tanners, Ltd.; former director, Newton Community
Fund, Newton YMCA, former member, Newton Licensing Board; mem-
ber and secretary, Newton Draft Board No. 117.

MEMBER OF: Brae Burn Country Club, Harvard Club of Boston.

UPON leaving college I entered law school and completed one year
before I entered service in July, 1941, as a private, Infantry. In

[558 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

January, 1946, after eventful but not illustrious service, I was re-
leased to private life, major, I.G.D., and returned to law school.
Most eventful during this period was my marriage to Betty in 1941
on a three-day pass and the arrival of our first child, Dick on April
10, 1944. Next came a year and a half in Cambridge finishing law
school and being admitted to practise law in 1947. I entered practice
with my father, Harvard 1905, a goal I had aimed for since grammar
school days. I have not been disillusioned, but have felt constantly
challenged and frequently rewarded. In normal course, Peter was
born August 15, 1947, Ann Elizabeth, December 22, 1948 and John
October 13, 1950 (Friday!).

Since completing law school, we have lived in Waban, five years
at one location and since 1952 at the next-door site. We have
summered in Maine and out of Quissett, Massachusetts, before locat-
ing when possible in Intervale, New Hampshire, which serves all
season purposes. My recreational activities have been limited pri-
marily to fishing, poor golf and skiing. Most weekends, school year
time at least, revolve around the family’s participation in various
sports and other activities.

Dick is a sophomore at Harvard; Peter a junior at Noble and
Greenough, Ann a junior at Winsor School and John an eighth-
grader at Fay School. Each has a future presently planned as a goal,
yet each, I am most sure, is in a state of flux. Each in his or her own
way, and each so differently, has been and is stimulating and re-
warding.

One could ask no more than that I be permitted another twenty-
five years with as much of life, challenge, enjoyment and fullness as
T have been granted since 1940.

[559]

HARVARD CLASS OF 194.0

ALDEN VALENTINE HASKELL

 

HOME ApprEss: Lake Shore Tower Apts. 6260 8. Lake Drive, Cudahy, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 6800 W. National Ave., West Allis, Wis.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MaRRIED: Bernice Johnson, Jan. 21, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHERS: George Dotson Haskell, Jr., 736, A.M., "37; William Hartman
Haskell, °43, M.B.A, '47.

occupation: Manufacturing; assistant treasurer. .

MEMBER OF: Eastern Yacht Club, Marblehead, Mass.

SHORTLY after my graduation I entered the Navy, and after a
varied and sundry career both as a deck officer and as a pilot in the
Atlantic and Pacific areas, I finally emerged as a lieutenant com-
mander. In 1946 I acquired my lovely wife. We have lived most of
the time in Springfield, Massachusetts. Upon my discharge from the
Navy I went to work for the Kendall Company for a short while,
and then went to work at the Bausch Machine Tool Company in
Springfield, Massachusetts, where I am now employed as assistant
treasurer. We have just been transferred to Milwaukee, Wisconsin,
where we will take up our new residence as of December 1, 1964.

Our hobbies have been skiing, raising dogs, and cruising the New
England coast from Northeast Harbor, Maine, and Newport, Rhode
Island, in our twenty-eight-foot cutter.

We are looking forward to our new life in Milwaukee and hope
to find Harvard friends there.

[ 560 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT .

ROBERT BOYD HAYDEN

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 68 Brooks Ave., Newtonville, Mass.

HENRY REED HAYES, JR.

     

= Ss ca Within’ ‘B-
HOME AbpRESS: 560 Old La Honda Rd., Woodside, Calif. 94062.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Pan American World Airways, San Francisco International
Airport, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Millbrook School, Millbrook, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE! A.B. 1940.
MaRRIED: Rosemary Hadden, May 12, 1951. CHILDREN: Yvonne Rose, Nov. 30,
_ 1952; Ruth Clifford, June 13, 1955.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Howland Hayes, ’42; David Hayes, ‘47, M.D. °51; Philip
Hayes, ’52.
occupation: Airline pilot, flying Boeing 707’s and 720's on international routes,
orFices HELD: Trustee, Millbrook School, 1946-49; council safety chairman,
Airline Pilots Association, 1960-64; treasurer, Human Rights Association
_ of Ridgefield, Conn, 1964.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Ausable Club, Se. Hubert’s, N-Y4
Silver Springs Country Club, Ridgefield, Conn.; Sociery of the Classic
Guitar; Westchester Retricver Club,

[ 561 ]

| 7) 1 OT TESTOR

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

salt water fly fishing to the Fijis. (The Colonial Service types were
scandalized: “But nobody uses artificials in Fiji!”)

I met my wife-to-be on the slopes of the Sierra Nevadas, pursued
her until March of 1951, when (after breaking her arm skiing) she
gracefully gave in. Our wedding trip took in Jamaica and old
haunts in New England and the Adirondacks. We lived in San
Francisco for the next two and a half years, where our first child
was born. Most of my flying during this period was on military
charters of the Korean Airlift. This business folded in 1953 and I
was transferred to New York and Pan American’s Atlantic routes.
We moved into a ramshackle colonial house in Ridgefield, Con-
necticut, following a grand tour of Europe.

Over the next ten years, our time was spent in rolling back honey-
suckle, remodeling the non-rectilinear house, producing a red-
headed daughter, becoming involved in town affairs (schools, con-
servation, planning and other squabbles), raising red-haired retriev-
ers, and taking three more European trips, the last with our daugh-
ters to Austria for skiing.

My flying career, subject to seniority’s snail-like progress, ad-
vanced through the Boeing 377 Stratocruiser, Douglas DC6B and
DC7C. Two serious (no fatalities) aircraft accidents led me to
take on the job of safety chairman for my Airline Pilots Association
local council. I assisted in several Civil Aeronautics Board accident
investigations. While working to spread the safety gospel among
my fellow pilots and officials of my company and government, I
sometimes felt that no one was listening, but I found comfort in the
thought that what I was learning might someday save my own neck.
A momentous change occurred in April of 1963, when I qualified
on the B7o7 Jet. The accelerated pace aboard this monster was
awesome. After two years’ acquaintance, it still commands all my
respect. It is pleasanter to fly and mechanically more reliable;
notably no propellers to fail as happened on my two accidents.

This last summer brought the opportunity to transfer back to
the San Francisco area. After some soul-searching we made the
move in September. We now live in a redwood grove with a view
of Stanford University and San Francisco Bay, enjoying the cli-
mate and the respite from civic involvement.

The move disenfranchised us for the 1964 election and the du-
bious “Choice instead of an Echo,” thus fortuitously preserving a
twenty-four-year Republican voting record. I dislike political
labels but if I were to describe my views I would say (in a word):

[ 564 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I am a_ trade-union — fiscally-conservative — pro-civil-liberties —
anti-F ederal-subsidy — pro-conservation-of-natural-resources — pro-
U.N.-internationalist —- low-tariff — free-enterprising Republican
mugwump. Obviously no party and no candidate for any office
will ever completely satisfy, not even if the candidate should be
myself.

In our Twentieth Reunion Report I remarked on the prevalence
of Parkinson’s Law. Lately [ve had to formulate the Hayes corol-
lary: In the seats of the mighty, logic seldom appears except as a
thumbtack.

WILLIAM COOK WILKINSON HAYNES

 

HOME ADDRESS: 13503 Indian Creek, Houston, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Butler, Binion, Rice, Cook & Knapp, 1100 Esperson Bldg.,
Houston, Texas.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Charlotte, N.C.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: S.B., 1940; LL.B. 1943 (47).

MARRIED: Phyllis Corinne Dawes, March 18, 1950. cHitpreN: William Chris-
topher Wilkinson, July 23, 1955; Margot Patricia, July 23, 1957; Randolph
Dawes, March 28, 1959; Sally Booker, Nov. 8, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Attorney — tax matters.

OFFICES HELD: Sergeant, U.S, Army Air Force; law clerk to Judge John J.
Parker, Chief Judge, U.S. Court of Appeals for the Fourth Circuit, 1947-
48; special assistant, Appeals Division, Boston, 1949-52; Civil Advisory
Counsel, Baltimore, 1952-53; Claims Division attorney, 1953-54, US.
Treasury; governing member, 1964-65, president, Texas Gulf Coast
Chapter, 1963-65, Arthritis Foundation; vice-president, Texas Academy
for the Advancement of Life Sciences, 195865; member, Taxation Com-
mittee, Partnership Subcommittee, American Bar Association, since 1957;
director and program chairman, Harvard Club of Houston; member, North
Carolina State bar, 1947-65, Texas State bar, 1954-65,

[ 565 ]

—————————————— ha

HARVARD CLASS OF IQ40

I met her at a Harvard Club party in Richmond, Virginia, at a
term of court. She was Dick Dawes’ (Harvard ’40) sister.

I haven’t made any great inventions or discoveries, but I am
helping others in this field. I am president of the Texas Gulf Coast
Chapter of the Arthritis Foundation and a governing member of
the Board of the Arthritis Foundation (which is searching for the
cause of and cure for arthritis which causes so much pain and suffer-
ing). I am vice-president of the Texas Academy for the Advance-
ment of Life Sciences which is working in the field of the support
of life processes. .

Have I lectured scholars? No, but I listened and learned from
such at Harvard Law School and Harvard Business School before
I received the President’s “Greetings” in 1942. I have been teaching
Sunday School at St. John the Divine Episcopal Church in Houston
to future scholars in Houston at various levels from four-year-olds
in lower kindergarten to ninth-graders and learning from them. |
have lectured several Cub Scouts in Pack 817 in Houston from time
to time. I have been interviewing applicants for Harvard in the
Houston area for the Schools and Scholarship Committee of the
Harvard Club of Houston. I am sure that there are great scholars
among these boys. Is this lecturing to scholars? If so, I’ve done it,
Posterity.

What about exercising power and acquiring riches? Yes, Pos-
terity, I have done this for you and the United States of America.
I have tried tax cases for the U.S. Treasury while with the Appellate
Division of the Chief Counsel’s office in Boston, 1949-52. I have
acted as Civil Advisory Counsel to Collectors of Internal Revenue
for Maryland, Virginia, West Virginia in 1952 and have advised
Collectors of Internal Revenue to enforce or release liens for U.S.
taxes while with the Claims Division of the Chief Counsel’s office
in Washington, D.C. I have seen and exercised some of the powers
of the U.S. Treasury and acquired riches for the U.S.A. It was
heady business — and sobering.

In addition to these things there have been various other garden
varieties of activities including serving as director in Dolphin. Inter-
national ‘Trading Company, acting as a director and program chair-
man of the Harvard Club of Houston and treasurer of the Meadow
Wood P.T.A., Houston, Texas.

As I said before, however, I’m not through yet. I notice that I
have performed some service for my fellow man at the international
level, at the national level, and at the community level. I seem to’

[ 568 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have neglected the States in which I have lived and hope to find
some way to help in that field.

My contribution to “outer space” so far has been in the Texas
Academy through its studies of the support of life in space. I think
every man owes some of his time and effort to his country, his
state, his county, his city and to his neighbors. I don’t know
whether to mention outer space or not. I suspect our children will
be space-oriented and will fulfill our obligations “out there.” And
speaking of space, if this is too much — cut it.

GEORGE AMOS HAYWARD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 78 Westchester Drive, Westwood, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ludlow Corp., Needham Heights, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1940(41).

MARRIED: Marjorie Borden, June 28, 1941. CHILDREN: Michael Borden, Feb. 10,
1943; Deborah, Jan. 22, 1948; Scott Christian, April 28, 1952; Dawn Adair,
Aug. 30, 1960.

occUPATION: Manager of marketing research, Ludlow Corporation, manufac-
turers of textiles, papers, plastics.

IN 1940, with considerable assurance, I listed my intended vocation
as textile manufacturing. So it was. Tw enty-five vears later I still
find myself involved with textile manufacturing, although the path
in between has not been exactly the straight and smooth super
highway earlier envisaged. It has taken me through small companies
(our own little hosiery mill was sold early in the ’so’s), medium
size, and now large. I early made the profound discovery that it is
necessary to be able to scll a product as well as to manufacture it,
and so considerable time has been devoted to the byways of market-

[ 569 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF IQ40

ing. If at times the road has appeared to wander, it has, I find,
covered the ground well to prepare for marketing research, the
position T now hold.

Having grown up in a small New England coastal community,
the sea has always been part of my life. World War II found me
just a month ahead of or behind Mr. Roberts —I am not quite sure
which since, although we obviously were in the same area, we
never did meet. On occasion I can still be found fishing, building
boats, or trying to find an excuse to be on or near the water.

This matter of spare time I find to be a rather nebulous thing.
Between my long-suffering wife, whose patience with my foibles
has stood up remarkably well over the years, four children ranging
from college to kindergarten, and community activities which have,
among other things, involved being a scoutmaster, a hospital trustee
and a planning board member, not to mention occasionally attend-
ing to business, I have found some rather varied demands made on
my time. While I regret none of it, my one wish is that the next
twenty-five years will be a little longer than the last twenty-five.

JOHN FRANK HAYWARD

 

HOME Appress: 7611 S. Merrill Ave., Chicago, Ill. 60649.

oFFice appress: Meadville Theological School, 5701 S. Woodlawn Ave., Chi-
cago, Ill. 60637.

PREPARED AT: Wellesley High School, Wellesley, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: a.B., cum laude, 1940, B.D. (Meadville
Theol. School, Chicago), 1943; pup. (Univ. of Chicago), 1949.

mMarriep: Muriel Sternglanz, March 29, 1943. CHILDREN: Peter Brian, Dec. 9,

1946, Steven Bruce, June 26, 1948; Miriam Ruth, Sept. 3, 1952; David
Michael, March 25, 1954,

HARVARD SON: Peter Brian Hayward, ’68.

[570]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Professor of theology, Meadville Theological School; Unitarian
minister.

orFices HELD: Minister, First Unitarian Church, Columbus, Ohio, 1948-51;
assistant professor of religion and art, University of Chicago, 1951-60;
associate professor of theology, Meadville Theological School, Chicago,
1960-63; chairman, Unitarian-Universalist Commission on Religion and
the Arts, 1960-63; president, The Bach Society, Chicago, since June, 1964;
member, board of trustees, First Unitarian Church, Chicago, 1960-63; mem-
ber, board of directors, The Bach Society, Renaissance Society of the
University of Chicago and Chicago Memorial Association.

MEMBER OF: American Theological Society — Midwest Division, American
Society for Church Architecture.

PUBLICATIONS: Existentialism and Religious Liberalism, Beacon Press, 1962.

THE 25th Anniversary Report gives me the chance to express my
gratitude to Harvard College for the accumulated benefits of her
influence and, thereby, to offer a few autobiographical details which
have as their common theme a direct or indirect connection with
Harvard.

It occurs to me in retrospect that the four undergraduate years
were a violent and sobering change for one who, like me, came from
the privileged apex of a small town high school. Therefore I am all the
more grateful for Harvard’s atmosphere of social independence and
academic vivacity which supported me amid all the strains of being
away from home for the first time.

I majored in philosophy at Harvard and studied a good deal of
Greek. Later, in graduate studies of the Unitarian ministry, the
Biblical element was added to my Harvard inheritance. Still later,
in the practice of the parish ministry, and as a theologian today, I
have been occupied with the scholarly and human dialogue between
the way of reasonableness and the way of faith — which is to say,
the dialogue between Greece and Israel.

Through the Glee Club Harvard gave me the love of song. The
Glee Club was for me the perfect combination of work and play,
of arduous effort and spontaneous delight. Later I came to see that
religion is born when, in the manner of the Glee Club, seriousness
shades into celebration, and vice versa.

While serving as a chaplain with the Marines in World War II,
also as minister of the First Unitarian Church in Columbus, Ohio,
after my graduate studies, and as professor of religion and art at the
University of Chicago, the delight I learned from Doc Davison and
from Woody (those princes of Harvard's music) has reverberated
continually. Today I teach theology at the Meadville Theological

[570]

u

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

School, an institution which is affiliated with the University of
Chicago and is set up to prepare men for the Unitarian-Universalist
ministry. While I owe a great deal to the University of Chicago for
professional education (Bachelor of Divinity and Ph.D.), Harvard
built the foundation.

Finally, Harvard gave me my wife and thus, indirectly, my chil-
dren. Those of you who knew me at Leverett House will remember
my roommate, Don Sternglanz. It was characteristic of him to be
generous in letting me read his family mail. I recall a day when Don
was so pressed with work that I offered to reply to the latest letter
from his sister. I wrote to Muriel Sternglanz that day and many other
days and times thereafter. In 1943 she became Muriel Hayward. For
many reasons of honor and delight, and especially for the sake of m
wife and four children, I cherish Don’s memory. He died in World
War II, a combat casualty in the Air Force.

These then are my thanks to Harvard: for her “Veritas” which is
the lure and excitement of my life work; for the gift of the Glee
Club whose memory and motto uphold me: “Cantent usque eamus’’;

and for the people of those years by whose lives I am blessed today.

THEODORE LYLE HAZLETT, JR.

 

HOME appress: 114 Fairway Lane, Pittsburgh, Pa. 15238.

OFFICE appREss: 200 Ross St., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219.

PREPARED AT: Laylor Allderdice High School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 19403 LL.B. 1944,

Maeriep: Susan Brimmer Inches, June 21, 1948. CHILDREN: Nancy Sturgis,

July 28, 1951; Susan Dunlap, May 25, 1953; Patricia Ayer and Theodore.
Lyle, 3d (twins), Aug. 28, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Dunlap Hazlett, tu.s., ’s0.

occuPATION: Attorney.

[572 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Urban Redevelopment Authority of Pittsburgh, since
1948; vice-chairman, State Planning Board; trustee, Mercy Hospital; direc-
tor, Western Pennsylvania Conservancy; member, board of governors,
Automobile Club of Western Pennsylvania,

RAYMOND FRANCIS HEALEY

 

HOME AbDpREss: 504 Highland Ave., Upper Montclair, N.J.

OFFICE AppREss: Montclair Radiological Group, 116 Park St., Montclair, N.J.

PREPARED AT: Memorial High School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1940; M.D. 1943.

MaRRIED: E. Claire Voyer, Dec. 20, 1947. CHILDREN: Raymond, Sept. 15, 1948;
Todd, Oct. 24, 1950; Glenn, Oct. 5, 1957; Leah, Jan. 19, 1959; Grant, Jan.
23, 1960.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lawrence Andrew Healey, ’49.

occuPATION: Radiologist; senior attending radiologist, Mountainside Hospital,
Montclair, N.J.; senior partner, Montclair Radiological Group.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Department of Radiology, 1960, 1961, Medical Educa-
tion Program, 1953-1959, Mountainside Hospital; chairman, Scholarship
Committee, Harvard Club of New Jersey, 1964, 1965.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Essex County Medical Society;
Radiological Society of North America; Montclair Golf Club; Essex
Skating Club; Harvard Club of New Jersey.

pusLicaTions: Three articles in American Journal of Roentgenology, published
between 1949 and 1952.

THE many pleasant memories which I have retained of our under-
graduate years are almost matched by those of the next four years
at the Medical School. At first I missed the somewhat more leisurely
approach of the College but soon found myself willingly giving more
and more time to a new field that has never ceased to fascinate.

My initial interest in the specialty of internal medicine was served
_ by a medical internship at Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston.

[573]

oe

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

This program was interrupted, however, as was my Army service,
by a brief encounter with tuberculosis. On returning to the Brigham
I finished my internship and began a residency i in internal medicine
while awaiting the start of a residency in radiology at the Peter Bent
Brigham Hospital.

With my training in radiology complete I left the Boston medical
environment and served for the following three years (1949-51) as
an instructor in radiology at the Columbia-Presbyterian Medical
Center in New York. This exposure to a second medical center was
an invaluable experience. Each of these fine medical areas is quite
competitive and each makes a great contribution to medicine.

In 1951 I decided that a combination of the private practice of
radiology with an appointment at a community hospital would best
serve my interests. This decision was a difficult one, for at that time
the opportunities in academic radiology were enticing. At present
I am senior partner in a five-man radiological group in Montclair,
New Jersey. Our interest is divided between the Radiology Depart-
ment at the Mountainside Hospital and a private radiology clinic.

Shortly after my arrival at Mountainside Hospital as radiologist I
was appointed director of medical education of the staff. For six
years I worked to develop a staff educational program which would
attract the large numbers of interns and residents needed to staff our
hospital. As the program grew more successful it became obvious
that medical education was in effect a new medical specialty and that
I was by training and basic interest a radiologist. Accordingly I
resigned as director of education but have retained an active interest
in the program.

While the days in medicine have been full I have still had time to
enjoy an actively growing family. Two of my boys are at the
moment away at Andover, one a junior and the other an upper. The
remaining three children, two boys aged four and seven and one
girl aged five, keep the home pace fairly active. Claire has been busy
with her own career along with caring for the children. Several
years ago she received her Master’s degree in American literature at
Columbia University and more recently has passed her oral ex-
aminations for her Ph.D. in the same field. At the present time, while
writing her dissertation at Columbia, she is teaching.

Several trips to the Alps have allowed us to indulge our interests
in skiing and travel. Skiing has proved to be the one activity in
which all of the children can engage. Golf and tennis allow me to
remain in reasonable physical condition the year around and also

[ 574]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

permit some healthy competition with the older boys. For several
years I have been coaching a Peewee hockey team which until this
year has included at least one of my older boys.

My interest in Harvard is renewed each year as I interview
scholarship candidates from the northern New Jersey area. Now,
while serving as chairman of the Scholarship Committee, I have an
excellent opportunity to evaluate some of Harvard’s future students.
They are young boys of outstanding talent and, indeed, only the
most able seem to apply for admission these days. Harvard's ac-
complishments should be great with such a student body.

ke THOMAS VINCENT HEALEY

 

BORN: Aug. 25, 1917, Worcester, Mass, PARENTS: Thomas Joseph Healey,
Ellen Mary Breen.

PREPARED AT: Worcester Academy, Worcester, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B. Suara cum laude, 1940; M.D. 1043.

MarRRIED: Anne P, Sullivan, March 29, 1948, Worcester, Mass. CHILDREN: Jo
Anne, Jan. 18, 1949; Thomas Vincent, Jr., June 5, 1950; Sean, July 14, 1952.

DIED: Aug. 26, 1957, Worcester, Mass.

THOMAS VINCENT HEALEY was a member of Phi Beta
Kappa, first marshal of our Class, captain of the Harvard Baseball
Team during his senior year and starred in football, After medical
school he spent five years in surgical training at the Boston City
Hospital, a year as a resident at the Worcester City Hospital and
since 1949 had been in the private practice of surgery in Worcester.
He was assistant thoracic surgeon at the Worcester City Hospital
and was on the courtesy staffs of the Se. Vincente and Fairlawn
Hospitals in Worcester, Tle was certified by the American Board
of Surgery in 19st and was a diplomate of the National Board of

[575]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Medical Examiners. Since 1949 he had been physician and surgeon
for the Reed & Prince Manufacturing Company. His memberships
included the Worcester District Medical Society, American Med-
ical Association, New England Obstetrics and Gynecology So-
ciety, Massachusetts Medical Society (councillor) and the American
College of Surgeons (fellow). He served as war secretary and
treasurer of the Worcester Surgical Forum. He was survived by
his wife and children.

THOMAS HOWARD HEALY

 

HOME apbpRESS: 53 Wyman St., Waban, Mass. 02168.

OFFICE AvpRESS: Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Co., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1937, 1938-1940. DEGREES: A.B, 1940; M.BAy 1947.

' Marriep: Mary C. Connors, June 22, 1942. cartp: Suzanne, Jan. 25, 1944.

occuPATION: Management consulting, Peat, Marwick, Mitchell & Company,
national accounting firm; my responsibility is to perform management
consulting assignments and special studies and to direct others in perform-
ing this work.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Woodland Golf Club, Newton, Mass.;
Massachusetts Society of C.P.A.’s.

HAVING received more than my share of the weekly reminder
cards from the Reunion office (clever and amusing as they have
been), I am forcing myself to render an accounting of these last
twenty-five years. Several earlier attempts have been unsuccessful.
Time will allow no more abortive efforts, and so this approach i is to
be a simple chronological one.

In 1940, together with an ever-increasing number of others, I
launched into a brief military career. During the next five years,

[ 576 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

] traveled in the Pacific area in such resorts as New Guinea, the
Philippines and, finally, Japan.

In 1942, I waged my most successful campaign and convinced
Mary Connors to become Mary Healy. Our one and only, Suzanne,
was born in 1944, but my formal introduction to the young lady
was delayed almost two years due to pressing war ‘time commit-
ments elsewhere.

Suzanne and I spent a period at Harvard together, she at the
Harvard Nursery School and I at the Business School. As I recall,
she pursued her curriculum more gracefully than I, as I struggled
mightily to gain the M.B.A.

Since 1947, I have followed a business career that has included
selling work, sales management and business consulting. We have
lived in several locations, generally in the Boston area, but with
one nine-year period in the Midwest — in Chicago.

Currently, I am with the national accounting firm of Peat, Mar-
wick, Mitchell & Company, responsible for special consulting en-
gagements with clients of that firm located in New England.

Our daughter Suzanne, after the auspicious beginning at Har-
vard’s short-lived nursery school, has continued her academic pur-
suits and is about to graduate from Salve Regina College in New-
port, Rhode Island. This coming June promises to be quite a
month! -

In trying to define my current philosophy and my position in
regard to questions of the day, I am not aware that metamorphosis
has taken place during these past years. Politically, I have been
consistently a Democrat in thinking and voting. I am pro-U.N. as
the one instrument which provides hope for orderly approach to
the complex and, at times, frustrating problems that confront us.

In general, I guess I am basically optimistic although I have diffi-
culty understanding the so-called beatnik element of the coming
generation — the hair-dos, the dress, the music, ete. I trust the
notoriety is disproportionate to the numbers.

Among my keener disappointments is the recognition that, com-
pared to a number of my contemporaries, I appear to have difficultv
in participating in a number of activities rather than finding my self
limited to the daily requirements of work. In its season, I do
manage some golfing but rarely manage to break ninety. At this
point, I resolve to do better — break ninety and also be active in
nonbusiness pursuits.

[577]

cence enenneesneane ; ”

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

NATHANIEL HEARD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5601 Royal Palms, Houston, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 6701 Griggs Rd., Houston, Texas.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B. 1940.

MARRIED: Barbara Ross, Aug. 26, 1940 (divorced, 1963). CHILDREN: Donald
Lindsay, April 25, 1941 (going into service, March, 1965); John Reed,
Univ. of Texas ’65, Nov. 3, 1942; Ross Summers, Univ. of Houston, 68,
June 12, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Jay Heard, ’39.

OCCUPATION: Sales, industrial chemicals.

FOR the last sixteen years I have been selling industrial supplies in
Houston. It has been interesting work in that I am on my own and
not desk-bound. .

I have been chairman of the Gulf A.A.U. Weightlifting Com-
mittee for the last six years, and as such I am responsible for organ-
izing the competition in this area, and still compete myself, not
having sense enough to recognize the onset of old age.

The best political conviction, I find, is always to “throw the
rascals out.”

Inasmuch as most theology seems to be to define and thereby
escape the bother of understanding, I find it difficult to sincerely
belong to any standard religion, and by labeling your faith, you
must limit it. Spencer said it best when he would no more than
“affirm the existence of the unknowable.”

[578]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT LOUIS HEILBRONER

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 168 E.. 74th St., New York, N.Y. 10021.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1940; PH.D. (New
School for Social Research), 1963.

MARRIED: Joan Knapp, Oct. 20, 1952. CHILDREN: Peter Louis, June 24, 1954;
David Robert, Aug. 20, 1957.

occupation: Author of books on various aspects of economics; university
teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Lecturer, New School for Social Research, since 1960; chairman
of board, Town School, New York City, since 1962; trustee, Mannes Col-
lege, 1960-64.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association.

puBLIcATIONS: The Worldly Philosophers, 1953, The Quest for Wealth, 1956;
The Future as History, 1960; The Making of Economie Society, 1962;
The Great Ascent, 1963; A Primer on Government Spending (with Peter
L. Bernstein, ’40), 1963; An Introduction to Macro Economics, 1965.

I LEFT college without the faintest idea of what I wanted to do and
took a dull job in New York out of a vague feeling that I ought to
be following a business career. If the war hadn’t come along, I still
might be. As it was, I did a quick turn in Washington with the OPA
and rediscovered how interested I was in economics (I had known
this in school but lacked the sense to think I might make a career of
it), and then overseas as a Japanese language interrogator (product
of a Military Intelligence cram school).

When I came back I had the wit to know that I didn’t want to be
a raincoat salesman — my last job as a free enterpriser — and so I
became a very junior economist for a large company. That horse
was shot out from under me when there was a management shakeup
and my boss got eased out, whereupon I went to a raw material

[579]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

 CARRICK WHITE HEISKELL

 

BORN: July 1, 1917, Little Rock, Ark. parents: John Netherland Heiskell,
Wilhelmina Mann.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B., 1940,

MaRRIED: Bertha C. Forbes.

piebD: Killed in action, November, 1943, in China.

AFTER graduation Heiskell spent two years as a reporter and
assistant city editor on the Arkansas Gazette in Little Rock, before
enlisting in the Army Air Force in the summer of 1942. He went
into the Air Transport Command and received his wings and com-
mission as a second lieutenant in February, 1943. He was stationed
in Memphis and Salt Lake City before being assigned to the India-
China ferry service and was killed while piloting an army transport
plane between India and China. He was survived by his wife.

[ 582 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NICHOLAS HELBURN

 

HOME AppREss: 989 Memorial Drive, Cambridge, Mass. 02138.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.; Cambridge High and
Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREES: A.B. (Univ. of Chicago); pup. (Univ. of
Wisconsin).

MARRIED: Tess Loth. cutLpren: Stephen, 1946; Peter, 1952.

HARVARD BROTHER: Stephen Helburn, ’37 (deceased).

occupation: Head of Earth Sciences Department, Montana State University.

LAWRENCE BYRON HELLER

 

HOME AppREss: 25 Kensington Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y. 10583.

OFFICE ADDRESS; Sweets Co. of America, Inc., 1515 Willow Ave., Hoboken,
N_J.

PREPARED AT: Meyers High School, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1940.

Marrigp: Elaine Sharfman, June 3, 1942, CHILpREN: Bruce Lawrence, Feb. 20,

1947; Paul Sharfman, March 12, 1950.
[ 583 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

occuPATION: National sales manager, Sweets Company of America, Inc., manu-
facturers of Tootsie Roll candies,

PRACTICAL consideration won out over long-range judgment in
September of 1940, and I decided to start immediately to earn a
living instead of an M.B.A, Resigning from the B School, before
actually entering my first class, ] began in earnest to pursue a
career in business and a Wheaton undergraduate (née Elaine Sharf-
man). Success came more quickly to the latter effort; we were
married in June, 1942, at Fort McClellan, Alabama.

It was, of course, military rather than commercial business that
had brought me to Alabama. More of the same took me soon to
Fort Benning, Georgia, where after ninety days I was advised that
I was a gentleman and an infantry platoon leader.

Here technology came to the rescue of my platoon; an IBM
sorter, apparently skeptical of my ability to lead an assault on a
German position, eliminated that possibility by transferring me into
Military Intelligence. After a tour as an instructor at the M. I.
Training Center i in Maryland, I was assigned, in June, 1944, as a
staff officer at G-2, SHAFF. Having done nothing serious to hinder
the Allied effort, | was decorated, promoted to captain and later
assigned to the Intelligence Staff in the Office of Military Govern-
ment, Berlin.

IT returned to civilian life in March, 1946, and made a fair start
at learning the business of food distribution, with a large wholesale
grocery firm in Worcester, Massachusetts. Late in 1950, just when
it began to appear that my attentiveness in Economics A might soon
pay off, another IBM sorter ran amuck, pulled me out of the In-
active Reserves and sent me, screaming, into a police action north of
Seoul.

In mid-1952, I returned from Korea, beat Mr. McNamara to the
punch by resigning my commission, and decided once again to set
out to earn an honest living. Earn a living! It was twelve years
since this hysteria had hit me the first time, and I lay down for a
few weeks, hoping the feeling would pass. (After all, how many
false starts can you take!) The feeling might have passed, too, but
for the hunger cries of two children and a wife who proved most
un-idealistic. So I went back into the food business and have
worked at it day and day (there are no nights) ever since.

My career in the food industry has been varied and fruitful and
has brought me into contact with almost every facet of the market-

[ 584]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing process: warehousing; distribution, sales and advertising; labor
relations, supermarket location, design, financing, operation and
romotion. I have served in executive positions with several major
national food companies and am presently national sales manager
for one of the oldest and largest candy manufacturers in the
country.

We live in Scarsdale, New York, with our two fine sons, an old
and devoted springer spaniel and an impossibly large mortgage.
This, I learned from some required reading on the banks of the
Charles, is what makes the world go ’round.

RICHARD HUNTER HEMP

 

HOME ApDRESS: 1246 Lombard St., San Francisco, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: San Francisco Chronicle, San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Berkeley High School, Berkeley, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Lorna Baldwin, May 21, 1947 (divorced 1954); Mirella Alterocca,

Sept. 10, 1955.
occuPaTION: Journalism; night city editor, San Francisco Chronicle.

A QUARTER of a century since that June morning in 1940 when
I “joined the ranks of educated men” and picked up my diploma at
the “A to H” desk in Sever Hall. Chronologically, it is easy to mark
the years:

1940-41 Graduate study in political science at the University of
California in Berkeley;

1941-46 Service with the Marine Corps, from the Virgin Islands
to North China, with some bleak North Carolina and Texas chap-
ters in between;

1946-65 The inauguration and blossoming of a journalistic career

[ 585 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF [940

on the Sau Francisco Chronicle, from copy boy to reporter to night
city editor.

Those are the times and places. The very listing brings back
memories of lasting friendships, colorful travels and sensational
newspaper stories.

More importantly, the years since Commencement have
rounded my character, alerted my spirit and, above all, achieved for
me a serenity of mind and confident happiness.

Specifically, my job is a challenging and varied one from day to
day. I have a Roman-born wife who embodies the best features of
her nationality; a home on Russian Hill that overlooks the Golden
Gate; and physical fitness obtained from intense devotion to the
game of tennis.

May the next twenty-five years serve me as well!

DAVID GEORGE HENDERSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4328 Osage Ave., Philadelphia, Pa. 19104.

OFFICE appreEss: Design & Construction Office, National Park Service, 143 S.
Third St. Philadelphia, Pa. 19106.

PREPARED AT: Summit High School, Summit, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: $.B., 1940; B.ARCH. (Univ. of Pennsyl-
vania), 1954.

Marriep: Cynthia S. Kilburn, July 31, 1942 (divorced 1960). CHILDREN: Jeffry
Lee, Nov. 9, 1943; Eric Ring, Nov. 17, 1944.

occuPATION: Architect.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Philadelphia.

SEARCHING.

[ 586 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SAMUEL SIDNEY HERMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4705 Chevy Chase Blvd., Chevy Chase, Md. 20015.

OFFICE ADDREsS: National Cancer Institute, Bethesda, Md. 20014.

PREPARED AT: Revere High School, Revere, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; D.D.s, (Loyola Univ.), 1944:
M.P.H. (Yale Univ.), 1948; pup. (ibid.), 1950.

marRiED: Liselotte Vogt-Perl, May 27, 1954. CHILDREN: Hans Oliver, Feb. 12,
1954; Nicholas, Nov. 13, 1954 (both adopted October, 1955).

occuPATION: Career officer in Public Health Service, currently, deputy asso-
ciate director (Grants and Training), National Cancer Institute.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, National Health Council, 1958;
member, Committee on Prosthetics Information and Education, National
Research Council, 1958-59; consultant, Committee on Rehabilitation,
American Heart Association, 1958-59, member, board of governors, Com-
missioned Officers’ Association of the Public Health Service, 1960-62.

MEMBER OF: American Public Health Association (fellow); American Associa-
tion for the Advancement of Science; American Institute for Biological
Sciences; Harvard Club of Boston; Edgemoor Tennis Club; Pentagon
Officers’ Athletic Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous professional papers and addresses; associate editor
and co-editor, Child Development Abstracts @ Bibliography, published
by the Society for Research in Child Development.

THE importunings of Peter Pratt — good-natured at first but now
increasingly petulant — can no longer be ignored. The procrastina-
tion, I suspect, reflects my difficulty in composing appropriate
words to describe the past twenty-five years. A quarter of a cen-
tury can be a mighty elastic measure of time! Though it’s brief in
terms of the things I have done and hope yet to accomplish, it
represents nevertheless almost half my lifetime to date.

Except for my active military duty, I have remained in the Com-
missioned Corps of the Public Health Service, with assignments
mainly in the fields of health resources analysis and planning, and

[ 587 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

to a lesser degree in federal-state relations. 1 have more recently

been caught up in the excitement and problems created by the
spectacular growth of federal programs in support of biomedical
research here and abroad. I often think that too few people fully
appreciate the extent to which federal sponsorship of research has
contributed to the world leadership of American science, and the
fact that these advances have occurred without restrictive govern-
mental control. It has been a personal satisfaction to be intimately
involved in the enlightened administration under which strict ac-
countability for use of public funds is proving to be compatible with
freedom of scientific i inquiry. It would in fact be difficult to find a
position in government service with greater opportunity for the
stimulation I have experienced in working at the point where in-
terests of the universities, the scientific community and the federal
agency converge. Meaningful work, leavened by travel which has
taken me to every major institution of learning and by opportunities
to teach at two local universities, has been a fine blend to brew.

On the domestic front I have much cause to be grateful to a
wife whose considerable gifts as an artist have remained subordinate
to her concern for our two pre-teen-age boys; two Airedale terriers
and a most agreeable home which, mirabile dictu, is but minutes
away from the office. Our leisure time is aggressively devoted to
music (principally chamber), reading, stamp collecting, photog-
raphy, gardening and sailing. Vacations on Buzzards Bay are a
high point of the year. Lise and I still don’t feel old enough for
golf and, hence, we’re committed to tennis the year round.

I believe I have retained my liberal outlook on the world, my
adolescent enthusiasms, an unflagging sense of humor, and a capac-
ity for self-renewal. Our 25th Reunion coincides with an option
for twenty-year retirement from the Service. The blandishments
of a new career in a university environment have been a recurrent
theme for fantasy (mainly mine), fueled by a nostalgia for the
Boston area. Hopefully, the present indecision will be resolved by
this summer.

The past twenty-five years have been so good that I am already
looking forward with zest to the Fiftieth. There should be more
striking changes to report at that time concerning my hair, teeth
and waistline. And by that time, Avis may no longer be in second
place. ,

[ 588 ]

_— —_ acnianinmenssnsieeenee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

_ANIEL ACKERMAN HERRICK, JR.

 

-_123 LeJeune Rd., Miami 34, Fla.

ALLEN KENT HERRING

 

North Ave., Weston 93, Mass.

[ 589 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JULIAN SIMON HESS

 

MAILING AppRESS: 44 E. g2d St., Apt. 3-A, New York, N.Y. 10028.

EDWIN HEWITT

     

ay
:

Ys bassin Cad LD tet adh
HOME ADDRESS: 5747 6oth Ave., N.E., Seattle, Wash. 98105.

OFFICE Appress: Dept. of Mathematics, University of Washington, Seattle,
Wash. 98105.

PREPARED AT: Principia Academy, St. Louis, Mo,; Leelanau Schools, Glen
Arbor, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940; A.M., 19415
PH.D., 1942.
marrikp: Carol Blanchard, March 4, 1944 (divorced 1962); Mrs, Pamela Jones

Meyer, May 28, 1964. CHILDREN; Margaret, Nov. 13, 1952; Elizabeth,
Oct. 25, 1954.

HaRvarD BROTHER: Wilham Guthrie Hewitt, °38.
OCCUPATION: Professor of mathematics,

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Chi, American Mathematical Society;
Mathematical Association of America, Division of Mathematics, National

[ 590 J

__

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Research Council; Svenska Matematikersamfundet,; Harvard Lodge, AF,
& A.M.

PUBLICATIONS: A Survey of Abstract Harmonic Analysis. Surveys in Applied
Mathematics, vol. IV, John Wiley & Sons, New York, 1958, Theory of
Functions of a Real Variable, Holt, Rinehart & Winston, New
York, 1960; Abstract Harmonic Analysis 1, Band 115 (with Kenneth A,
Ross), Springer-Verlag, Heidelberg, 1963; seventy-five mathematical pub-
lications,

I SPENT 1940-42 in the Graduate School of Arts and Sciences at
Harvard, being awarded a Ph.D. in mathematics in June, 1942. I was
fortunate in being a student of Marshall H. Stone, whose example
of scholarship has been a guidepost to my entire career as a math-
ematician. I was appointed instructor in mathematics at Harvard in
June, 1942, a position which I resigned in January, 1943, to become
an operations analyst with the U.S. Army Air Force, in a group
directed by John M. Harlan. We were an odd little group — archi-
tects, engineers, lawyers, mathematicians, statisticians — plumped
down into the Eighth Bomber Command in High Wycombe, Bucks.
If we knew little about strategic bombing, the same could be said
of the colonels and generals. My two and a half years as a civilian
scientist with the Air Force were completely fascinating. One saw
men, organizations — and women—vunder what one might call

severe laboratory conditions. One could and should have learned
lessons about behavior of individuals and groups to stand one in a
lifetime’s stead. V-J Day found me in Austin, Texas, running tests
of B-29 fire contro] equipment and hoping in vain to go to the
Marianas.

Henry Allen Moe graciously awarded me a Guggenheim fellow-
ship directly after the war, which I took at the Institute for Ad-
vanced Study in Princeton. There followed a year at Bryn Mawr
(in honesty I must admit I wasn’t really cut out to teach at a wom-
en’s college), and a one-year stint at the University of Chicago. In
1948, needing a job, and remembering the Puget Sound country
from my childhood, I took a position as assistant professor at the
University of Washington (promotions in 1950 and 1951). I lived
in Sweden during 1951-52 (visiting professor at Uppsala), and took
a second year at the Institute for Advanced Study (1955-56). Pve
had visiting appointments at Yale, Michigan, the Australian National
University, and have lectured at scores of universities in the US.
and in eleven foreign countries. I belong to the Masonic Lodge (te-
grettably inactive), and to the Christian Science Chureh (active).

[ 59r ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

For amusement I ski, climb mountains, mess around with cars and
learn foreign languages.

Primarily ?'m a research mathematician — about seventy research
papers in print, two advanced books published, sixteen Ph.D, stu-
dents trained. I’m no threat to the eminence of the late John von
Neumann, but what I can do I do with enthusiasm, and I believe I
do it reasonably well. There 1s nothing in this wide world that I'd
rather do than mathematical research ‘and teaching. Every day at
my office is a new adventure; even if I didn’t need my salary I
would live almost as I do now. Mathematicians commonly live
mainly for those brief moments when they make their discoveries.
There is an excitement to it, a feeling good, that makes all the labor
and agony and heartbreak worth while. Teaching, too, is reward-
ing. It is not unpleasant to be a forty-five-year-old patriarch, with
students and students’ students scattered about the world.

My first marriage (1944-62) ended in divorce. Those who have
been divorced will know what it is like (though Tolstoy points out
that every unhappy family is unhappy in its own way), and those
who have not can count themselves lucky. A few months ago I
remarried, and I must say I am grateful and happy. My daughters,
aged ten and twelve, spend a fair amount of time with us, and it is
fascinating to watch them grow up.

To summarize: it’s a good life. P've goofed here and there, some-
times seriously, but by and large I think I’ve done most of what I had
in me.

LAWRENCE HENRY HICKEY

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 35 Forbes Rd., Milton, Mass. 02186.

L 592 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM EMERSON HINCHLIFF

% POT amp

|

  
 

D.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2005 E. Kenwood Blvd., Milwaukee, Wis. 53211.

OFFICE ApprEss: Milwaukee Public Library, 814 W. Wisconsin Ave. Mil-
waukee, Wis.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; M.LS. (Univ. of California
at Los Angeles), 1961.

MARRIED: Nancy E, Dewire, Dec. 27, 1941. CHILDREN: Susan Reid, Dec. 17,
1942; Peter Emerson, Sept. 22, 1948, Jonathan Gray, June 17, 1954.

occupation: Public Library Service: chief, In-service training and personnel
control, staff development.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Friends of the Pacific Palisades Library, 1954-57,
Pacific Palisades Area, The Program for Harvard College, 1958-59,
Civic League Library Committee, 1958-59, president, Pacific Pali-
sades Library Association, 1960-61; Citizen of the Year, Pacific Palisades,
1960.

MEMBER OF: American Library Association, Wisconsin Library Association,
California Library Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Which Entrance to Library Service?; Potent Pellets; The Joy
of Knowing; Challenge to Leadership; Where Are You Going?; Paper-
backs in Public Libraries, an Experiment; Impractical Miracles Achieved
Daily; A Modest Research Proposal; Modern Little Davids by the Billion;
First Things First, Abundant Good Books for an Affluent Society; Ask
the Young Man Who Ouns ioo.

SUMMER, 1939— worked my way round the Mediterranean and
Black Seas aboard an incendiary bomb-loaded freighter. The Ger-
mans ungratefully torpedoed her a few months later. Following a
year at the Business School, I married Nancy Dewire of Belmont.
We lived in Washington, D.C., Omaha, Belmont, and Cambridge;
then settled in pre-smog Southern California, After twenty Pacific
Coast years, we moved boys, books, bird, and bric-a-brac to the

[ 593 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

HARRY FARRAR HINCKLEY, JR.

 

HOME ADpREss: 34 Washington Ave., Gardiner, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Veterans Administration Center, Togus, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; M.D., 1945; LL.B.
(American Extension School of Law, Chicago), 1956.

MARRIED: Josephine Worthley, June 29, 1941. cHitp: Harry Farrar, 3d, Sept.
17, 1944.

occupation: Orthopaedic surgeon; chief, Orthopaedic Section, Veterans Ad-
ministration Center,

OFFICES HELD: President, P.T.A., 1950, Board of Trade, 1950, Islesboro, Maine;
Master, Island Lodge No. 89, AF. & A.M., Islesboro, 1953; patron, Lone
Star Chapter No. 33, OES, Islesboro, 1950-51; president, Maine Bridge
Association, 1960, delegate, New England Bridge Conference, since 1960;
member, board of governors, American Contract Bridge League, since
1960; district communications officer, District 19, U.S. Power Squadrons,
since 1962; chief engineer, Radio Station WJTO, Bath, Maine, since 19573
member, Mayor’s Council on Industrial Development, Gardiner, Maine,
since 1964, charter member and past surgeon, State of Maine Chapter,
Military Order of the World Wars.

MEMBER OF: Masonic Bodies (York and Scottish Rites); Kora Shrine Temple,
Kennebec Valley Shrine Club; American Contract Bridge League; Maine
Bridge Association, American Medical Association; American Legion;
Mystic Seaport Historical Society; National Rifle Association; American
Radio Relay League, Kennebec Boating Association, U.S. Power Squad-
rons, Military Order of the World Wars; Kennebec Yacht Club.

AFTER a year at the Medical School I left to earn some money
and, incidentally, to get married (or perhaps vice versa), and worked
for about a year and a half as a chemist for Lever Brothers in Cam-
bridge, returning to school in January of 1943. After graduation

and internship I spent about two years with the Army Air Force,
mostly with the Fifth Air Force in Japan.

[ 596 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

After discharge in 1948, I went to Bangor, Maine, for a surgical
residency and while there I read on the bulletin board, and re-
sponded to, a plea for a doctor on the island of Islesboro, in Penob-
scot Bay, where I spent an interesting three and a half years in
general practice.

In 1952 I joined the staff of the Veterans Administration Center
at Togus, Maine, where [| had the opportunity to gain experience
in my field of particular interest, orthopaedic surgery. For the past
several years I have been chief of the Orthopaedic Section at that
hospital.

In 1957 I did the engineering and construction of Radio Station
WMMS (now WJTO) of Bath, Maine, for my friend and class-
mate, Winslow T. Porter.

My hobbies in the past have included amateur radio, flying, pho-
tography, rifle and pistol shooting, and what have you. In recent
years I have been interested primarily in boating and duplicate
bridge. I have progressed gradually from a twelve-foot outboard to
a thirty-three-foot inboard and am active in the boating education
program of the U.S. Power Squadrons. Bridgewise, I play fre-
quently in local, regional and national tournaments, and am a past
president of the Maine Bridge Association.

Politically, I am still an unabashed “reactionary,” clinging to a
belief in free enterprise and individual responsibility. Some of my
more liberal classmates, types who carried picket placards in the
Square in the old days, will perhaps sneer at my lack of intellectual
growth. However, I can’t help thinking that a socialistic philosophy
of government, while seeming to be good for the Common Man,
may well turn out to be bad for the Nation; and what is bad for
the Nation as a whole must eventually hurt everyone, Common
Man and Harvard Man alike.

[ 597 ]

eee 4 "7 TRYST T

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

EDWARD FRANCIS HINDLE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 281 Spring Green Rd., Warwick, RL

OFFICE ADDRESS: Edwards & Angell, 1109 Hospital Trust Bldg., Providence, R.1.

PREPARED AT: Classical High School, Providence, R.I.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., Cu72 laude, 1940; LL.B. 1943 (47).

MarrieD: Grace M. McDonald, Nov. 28, 1942. CHILDREN: Natalie A., June 21,
1944; Edward Francis, Jr. June 24, 1945; Lyn F., June 16, 1949; Denise 9 -———
Marie, April 18, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Anthony Hindle, ’36; William Vincent Hindle, M..,
"376 |

OccUPATION: Attorney, partner in law firm of Edwards & Angell.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Butler Hospital; president, Big Brothers of Rhode Island,
chairman, executive committee, Rhode Island Bar Association; member,
Judicial Council of Rhode Island; secretary and trustee, Gilbert Stuart
Memorial, Inc.; president, vice-president and secretary, Harvard Club of
Rhode Island. .

MEMBER OF: American and Rhode Island Bar Associations, Warwick Country

Club; University Club.

BEFORE the war caught us up, I was able to complete my first year
of law school. When the war came I spent four years of service in
the Army, after which I completed my legal education in 1947 at
Harvard Law School.

For the past eighteen years I have been happily and busily engaged
in the practice of law in Rhode Island, first as an associate and for
the past ten years as a partner in the law firm of Edwards & Angell
in Providence, Rhode Island.

My family of four children has grown; the older two now being
in college, while the younger two are still at home with the “olde
folkes.” More and more, my activities in community and public
fields outside the law occupy my time. It is a happy and rewarding
experience.

[ 598 |

| scercttttonsitemnasnatnsamasanssenerannsccnnssen

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JONATHAN TRUMBULL HINE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 337 Browns Lane, Old Lyme, Conn. 06371.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Navy Underwater Sound Laboratory, New London, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREES: S.B, (U.S. Naval Academy), 1941; M-E.A.
(George Washington Univ.), 1961.

MARRIED: Carrie Louise Curtis, Oct. 23, 1946 (divorced 1953); Janet Anne
Elizabeth Simpson, Aug. 10, 1957. CHILDREN: Jonathan Trumbull, Jr.,
Aug. 3, 1947; David Louis, Aug. 18, 1949; Charles Lanman, Dec. 23, 1958;
William Thomas, June 22, 1960.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Lanman Hine, ’go.

OCCUPATION: Retired after twenty years as general line officer, U.S. Navy;
currently, contract engineer, U.S. Navy Underwater Sound Laboratory,
working on submarine antenna problems.

OFFICES HELD: President, Naval Choral Club, Washington, D.C, 1957-58;
chairman, board of directors, United Cerebral Palsy Association of New

London County, Conn., 1963-64.
MEMBER OF: U.S, Naval Institute; Thames Club,

AFTER only one year with the Class of 1940 at Harvard I joined
the Navy with the Class of 1941 at Annapolis and continued for a
twenty-year Navy career which included surviving the sinking of
the USS West Virginia at Pearl Harbor, twelve submarine war
patrols in the Pacific with missions of commerce destruction, island
reconnaissance, shore bombardment, troop landings on Attu, guer-
rilla and coast watcher support in the Philippines, rescue of refugees
and downed aviators, and sinking of the Japanese submarine I-358.
On return from five years in the Pacific, I contracted a hasty
marriage ending in divorce after six years and two children.
Amphibious Force assignments between wars led me to the post
of chief staff officer, Landing Ship Flotilla Three, at the Inchon and
Wonsan landings and the Hungnam evacuation in Korea, 1950.

[599]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

For me, Inchon was that “finest hour” when I exercised more initia-
tive and responsibility and accomplished more with less resources
than at any other time. It confirmed my admiration for General
MacArthur who also inspired us to do much with little when our
submarine worked for him in the Philippines. At Inchon his imag-
inative plan violated most of the standard operating procedures for
amphibious landings and generated a maximum of resourcefulness
among subordinates. I am proud of what we accomplished there
although it has been little noted. Korea was a dirty unpleasant war,
one to be forgotten as soon as possible. It opened my eyes to the
fact that the man with the bayonet still exercises the real control
of a country. With complete air naval superiority we could not
exercise such control in the North nor even cut supply lines. I hope
this will be remembered among the current calls to bomb supply
routes in North Viet Nam. It will not work unless followed up by
soldiers or marines.

After Korea my career (except for a disappointing lack of pro-
motions) had some good “see-the-world” recruiting poster aspects
to it: instructor at the Naval Academy with yachting on the bay
and the stimulation of eager young men giving rapt attention to the
manifest wisdom of this Ancient Mariner; Mediterranean cruises in
USS The Sullivans with strenuous war games relieved by Riviera
shore leaves; showing the Flag in Africa and Arabia amid the solemn
ceremonies and gay conviviality of the Corps Diplomatique. Ro-
mance swamped me at Majorca in a weekend encounter with Janet,
a beautiful young English art teacher who was there on holiday.
We wrote constantly for a year, rendezvoused in France the next
summer during my destroyer’s second Mediterranean cruise, wrote
more letters and capped them with a happy wedding in Cambridge,
England, exactly two years after we first met. I can commend a
courtship of love letters over sweet nothings on the dance floor.

Duty in Washington at the Office of Naval Research and on the
staff of the Potomac River Naval Command completed my active
service, but I still work for the Navy as a Philco Corporation con-
tract engineer at the Underwater Sound Laboratory in New Lon-
don. The work is interesting and important but my life now is
focused on the family where the joys of a wonderful marriage and
a pleasant home are balanced by the tragedy of cerebral palsy
which handicaps my two youngest sons. We work hard with them

to bring them toward a normal independent life and they reward
us with love and a slow but steady progress.

[ 600 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In review my life seems a fair mixture of success and failure,
happiness and heartbreak, debits and credits, I do not want to live
it over, but I look forward with hope and optimism to another
twenty-five years on this fascinating roller coaster, Fasten your
safety belts.

THOMAS LANMAN HINE

 

HOME ApDpREss: 12 Preston St., Huntington, N.Y. 11743.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corp., Bethpage, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical High School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-40. DEGREES: S.B. IN EE, 1940; S.M. IN EE. (U.S. Navy
Postgraduate School), 1950.

mMarrieD: Helen Gail Tappan, Dec. 20, 1947. cHiLpREN: Peter Lanman, Jan.
30, 1950; Pamela Gail, March 10, 1955; Nancy Elise, Sept. 14, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Jonathan Trumbull Hine, ’40.

OCCUPATION: Aerospace industry, electronics systems engineer, Group Leader,
ASW Electronics Systems, Advanced Systems Engineering.

OFFICES HELD: Ensign—commander, U.S. Navy; vice-president, Congregation
of the Unitarian Church of Norfolk, Virginia.

MEMBER OF: Naval Order of the United States; Navy League of the United
States; Naval Institute; Suffolk County Air Force Base Aero Club; Grum-
man Antique and Sports Car Club; Grumman Bridge Club; Retired
Officers Association; Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association.

A CHECKERED career of more than twenty-one years as a naval
officer ended with retirement in 1962. So at ‘mid-life I find myself
embarking upon a new professional journey as an electronics en-
gineer. Not surprisingly, civilian life turns out differently from my
expectations. However, our family does enjoy the sense of perma-
nency that comes from scttling down after a dozen different homes

[ 6or ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

during eleven tours of duty in fifteen years, In this respect, alone,
the benefits are great and rewarding,

Pearl Harbor broke upon my Sunday afternoon reveries in the
Aviation Cadet Barracks at Jacksonville, Florida, The first year of
the war was spent instructing in PBY flying boats, despite my eager-
ness to join twin brother Jonathan who was fighting the Nipponese
at Pearl Harbor. Two years of action and inaction followed as a
plane commander in Patrol Squadron Eleven flying “Black Cat”
Catalinas in MacArthur's Navy from Australia to New Guinea to
the Philippines. Some well remembered ‘moments of terror which
relieve the boredom of war” are a seaplane crackup on land in
Northwest Australia; and three days paddling a rubber boat away
from the Japanese on New Britain Island. Besides all the standard
“{ was there” ribbons, ] was awarded two Distinguished Flying
Crosses, an Air Medal and the Presidential Unit Citation with star
for being a member of Patrol Eleven during the period when we
were credited with sinking 150,000 tons of enemy shipping.

The last year of the war was spent as a test pilot at Patuxent
River, Mary ‘land, where I also transferred to the Regular Navy and
completed a course of instruction at the Test Pilots School.

Between wars, I was a student of engineering electronics at the
U.S. Naval Postgraduate School in Annapolis, Maryland. During
the first semester at this school I took a three-hour “Bridegroom
Special” mathematics examination on the morning of the day Helen
and I were married. Helen has a degree in Art from Oberlin (1943)
and is a Registered Nurse, Johns Hopkins (1946). This talented
girl has stood up splendidly to the nomadic service life and the
heavy responsibilities of caring for our children and the other
temporary widows during protracted squadron deployments.

From Korea until retirement I served in Staff billets in ASW,
Atomic Weapons, NATO and Intelligence. Sea duty during this
period was in a P2V “Neptune” ASW squadron in Iceland and an
A3D “Skywarrior” twin-jet bomber squadron on board the carrier
USS Ticonderoga i in the western Pacific.

For fun I play bridge, compete in sports car rallies and continue
flying to which I have recently added some soaring. Philosophi-
cally, I am essentially an optimistic pragmatist who sees in the con-
stant change around us an order in the natural world corresponding
to an order in the world of ideas, In the cycle from good to bad
times, J ride out the bad and enjoy the good. Our surest immortality
lics in the good we do in this life and our degree of success in pre-

| 602 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

paring our children for the next round. I have great pride in our
children who I trust and believe will excel me in many ways. Lastly,
an ‘“‘out” attitude between hot wars, a patriotic zeal for this great
country (not this “Great Society”), makes twenty-one years of
military service seem worthwhile.

+ ARNOLD BERNERD HITE

 

BORN: Oct. 15, 1918, Dorchester, Mass. parents: Morris Hyman Hite, Sadie

Irene Hitman.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.
pieD: Feb. 22, 1944, Montreal, P.Q., Canada.

AFTER graduation Hite spent a year at the Business School. He
was survived by his father, a brother and sister.

| 603 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JOHN HOAR, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss: Hundridge Farm, Epping, N.H.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.
_ YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939, 1945-1946. DEGREE: S.B., 1940(46).
marrieD: Blanche H. Bockstoce, June 23, 1948 (divorced 1950). CHILD: William

H., July 26, 1949.
OccUPATION: Engineering consultant, manufacturing.
MEMBER OF: Lodge of St. Andrew, A.F. & A.M.
PUBLICATIONS: Several patents and patent applications in packaging machinery

areas.

RETURNING to college after the war years (1940-45) and service
with the Field Artillery, USA and OSS, European Theatre, I received
my S.B. degree in June, 1946 (as of 1940) and simultaneously cele-
brated my Sixth Reunion with the Class.

My business life and interests have been primarily concerned with
packaging machinery and, although not without frustrations, have
been quite fascinating and stimulating.

The farm in New Hampshire provides a constant challenge as well
as an outlet for emotions and a change of pace.

[ 604 ]

. | seemestowatnans _

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SHERMAN HOAR

 

HOME apprEss: Off Brooks Road, Harwichport, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cape Cod Community College, Hyannis, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; Graduate (Na-
tional War Coll.), 1958.

MarrieD: Eleanore Benedict, July 18, 1940, Old Deerfield, Mass. cHILpREN:
Ann Buttrick, March 10, 1941 (m. Mr. Floyd); Roger Sherman, 2d, July
5, 1947. GRANDCHILDREN: Frederick Winslow Floyd, March 6, 1962; Leslie
Cooper Floyd, July 1, 1964.

occUPATION: Chairman, Department of Business Studies, Cape Cod Community
College; lecturer in economic business subjects.

OFFICES HELD: Apprentice, Bucyrus Erie Company, 1940-41; major, U.S, Air
Corps, 1941-45; instructor, Middlesex School, 1945-46; assistant professor
and chairman, Department of Industrial Administration, School of Busi-
ness, University of Massachusetts, June, 1946, to June, 1951; chief of Sta-
tion, Central Intelligence Agency, 1951-60; member, Planning Board, Na-
tional Security Council, 1959-60; assistant to the President, International
Committee for Scientific Management, 1960-63; member, Republican
Town Committee, 1948; member, Town Planning Board, 1950, Amherst,
Mass.; executive secretary, Panamerican Association of Management Asso-
ciations,

MEMBER OF: American Association of University Professors; International
Committee for Scientific Management; The Peruvian Institute for Busi-
ness Administration; Accion para el Desarrollo (founder).

puBLicaTions: U.S, Patent on a bulldozer shovel.

WEIGHING the impact of four years in the Harvard environment
on twenty-five years of my life has been challenging and rewarding.
I have had to look closely at myself and have had to structure a
seemingly unstructurable career. How can one explain to others,
let alone to oneself, what has Ied one from a single year’s exposure
to manufacturing, into the Army, into preparatory school education,

[ 605 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

accelerate the creation of management skills. Three months spent
in the Belgian Congo at the request of the United Nations were less
productive. The ministers and governments changed so rapidly —
Where is Lumumba? Now you see him. Now you don’t — that
little could be done.

The second step on the return consisted of a period of residence
in Lima, Peru, and travels to most of Latin America, during which
period Eleanore and Roger and I developed satisfying interests in
various aspects of Peruvian life. For Eleanore, it was archeology
and service in the slum barriadas. Roger sailed as crew on a Peruvian
fishing boat, as crew and sometimes captain of our thirty-eight-foot
ketch, and explored the upper reaches of the Amazon by canoe. I
ran an inter-American conference on the role of the private sector
in the Alhance for Progress, sailed, explored coffee plantations,
studied the development potential of the Department of Cuzco, and
became fast friends with and a supporter in the American community
of Fernando Belaunde during his successful campaign for the presi-
dency of Peru.

Full normalcy came about on our return to the States last year,
to our beloved Martha’s Vineyard where through the years we have
had our farm, and to a new home in Harwichport, Massachusetts.
On the Cape we are now participating in the development of the
community college concept in Massachusetts. Once again I am back
in the field of education and, hopefully, still being of service. The

structure of my life, though seemingly erratic, does appear to have

a central theme — a theme picked up at Harvard twenty-five years
ago.

[ 608 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ENNO REIMAR HOBBING

  

Be,

Ly Pa
a e
e asap é
x . 3
ig :

HOME AppreEss: Turkey Hill Road, Greens Farms, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Latin American Information Committee, Inc., 120 E. 56th St,,
New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Reading Senior High School, Reading, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., magna cum laude, 1940.

MarRIED: Mary Bingham, Sept. 4, 1941. cHILDREN: Daniel Bingham, Oct. 13,
1942; Jeffrey Williams, April 22, 1945, Margaret Bingham, April 9, 1951;
David Bingham, March 2, 1961.

HARVARD sons: Daniel Bingham Hobbing, ’64; Jeffrey Williams Hobbing, ’66.

occuPaTION: Management consultant — director, Latin American Information
Committee, Inc. a

OFFICES HELD: Editor, Die Neue Zeitung, 1946-49; correspondent, Time Maga-
zine, 1949-52; civil servant, U.S. Government, 1953-54; writer, Life Mag-
azine, 1954-61; speech writer for Governor Nelson Rockefeller, 1959-60;
management consultant, Latin American Information Committee, Inc.,
since 1961.

PUBLICATIONS: Newspaper and magazine articles; helped write and edit several
books.

  

[ 609 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JOHN DEAN HODGES

 

HOME appress: 2 Kingston Rd., Newton Highlands, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 440, Commercial Street, Gloucester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

marriep: Lillian Ryan, Feb. 14, 1942. cHitpren: John Dean, Jr., Sept. 5 1944»
Lillian, April 26, 1946, Mary Katherine, Oct. 8, 1947.

occupation: Ice manufacturing, fish freezing and storage; assistant treasurer
— duties of same,

LEAVING the splendor of narration to my more affluent classmates,
I submit the following résumé of highlights for twenty-five years:

1940 — Graduated. 1941 — Joined Army in February. 1942 —
Married on Valentine’s Day. 1943 — Commissioned second lieuten-
ant, navigator, Air Corps, in August. 1944 — First Child, a son, born.

1945 — Separated from service in October — first lieutenant at
time — began working for a living. 1946 — Second child, a daughter,
born; enjoyed Sixth Reunion. 1947 — Third child, a daughter, born.
1948 — Right on Truman. 1949 — Nothing I can recall.

1950-—~— Enjoyed Tenth Reunion. 1951— Nothing to relate.

1952 — Right on Fisenhower. 1953— Nothing I can remember.
19§4— Another blank.

1955 —Enjoyed Fifteenth Reunion. 1956— Right again. 1957
— 5th year wedding anniversary. 1958 — Another year. 1959 —
And another year.

1960 — Right again on J.F.K.; enjoyed Twentieth Reunion. 1961
— And still another year. 1962 — Son entered Holy Cross College.
1963 — November 22 —a sad day for all. 1964— No enthusiasm

whether right or wrong; daughter entered Vernon Court Junior
College.

[ 610 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1965 — Enjoyed Twenty-fifth Reunion, I hope. Other daughter
will enter Wellesley College in fall.

During the entire period above, there have been, of course, the
hours at my job, the usual church and civic activities, attendance
at sports events of interest and the enjoyment of various social
functions as they arose. I would hope that the above span just adds
up to a normal, average and typical way of life, with its ups and
downs, joys and sorrows. Who could ask or want for more?

RICHMOND HOLDER

 

HOME apprEss: 130 Clyde St., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 412 Beacon St., Boston 15, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Gilman School, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., C4111 laude, 1940; M.D., 1944.

MarRIED: Marcia Sue Black, Aug. 8, 1953. CHILDREN: Christopher Adams, May
2, 1955; Jonathan Dix, Feb. 21, 1957; Nicholas Priest, May 6, 1959.

occupation: Child and adolescent psychiatrist; consultant to Children’s Serv-
ice, Massachusetts General Hospital; associate in psychiatry, Massachusetts
General Hospital; instructor in psychiatry, Harvard Medical School; pri-
vate practice of psychiatry.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, New England Opera Theatre —
Goldovsky Opera Institute; president, board of trustees, Guidance Camps,
Inc.

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline; Harvard Club of New York; St.

Nicholas Society.
PUBLICATIONS: Warious articles on child psychiatry for professional publications.

ALL through college I have enjoyed talking with people. When I
asked around if one could do this for a living, the answer invariably
was “Sure, if you want to be a psychiatrist and go to medical school.”
My answer to this was negative. Physics and chemistry were not

[ 6x1 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

seventh grade at the Hackley School in Tarrytown as a day student,
and Eric is in nursery school.

Music continues to be an interest. I still play the piano — mostly
jazz of sorts—and for the past ten years I have been exposed to
good choral music as a bass in a local group. Because Harriet had
the enthusiasm to take up the flute with no previous music ex-
perience, we have had a family music group with Ariel on the cello
and Sam on the clarinet completing the quartet. With increasing
pressure for math and science from colleges on the schools, it seems,
unfortunately, to be getting harder to find time for the arts.

We have spent much of each summer at Gloucester, Massachusetts.
Other than sailing, my sports are generally spectator, which is how
I expect they will remain. In the summer of 1956, Harriet and I
had a memorable trip to Europe of seven weeks, which we would
like to repeat someday with our children. With the years one is
supposed to grow more conservative and rigid. Somehow, it hasn’t
worked out like that, for at least in politics and economics my ideas
are more compassionate and far more liberal than they started out.
There is not space here to elucidate.

I look forward to June, 1965, and to the next twenty-five years,
D.V.

ROCKWELL HOLLANDS

 

HOME ApprEss: 544 Coleridge Ave., Palo Alto, Calif.
orFice appress: Lockheed Missiles & Space Co., Sunnyvale, Calif.

prepareD aT: Hornell High School, Hornell, N.Y.; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.
MarrieD: Felismina Guimaraes, June 20, 1937 (divorced 1959); Jessie Christo-

[ 616 ]

nag

2§$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pher Kauffmann, June 30, 1962. cumpren: Charlotte Maria, July 14, 1942;
Walter Rockwell, March 8, 1964.

occuPATION: Public relations administrator.

oFFices HELD: Public relations director, Peninsula Symphony Association, since

1963.
MEMBER OF: Public Relations Society of America; Peninsula Harvard Club,

Peninsula Symphony Association.
PUBLICATIONS: “End of a Program,” Public Relations Journal, August, 1964.

THE zoth Anniversary Class Report had me partaking of lunch
with a jackrabbit in the Nevada desert. I have since come down
the hill to the coast of California where everything grows abundant-
ly — palm trees next to pine trees, and bizarre motels next to elec-
tronic plants.

On Commencement Day, 1940, I was looking for a newspaper
job — newspaper, because my only vocational training had been
gained as a Crimson editor and Boston Globe college correspondent;
job, because I had a wife as well as myself suddenly to support. I
did find a newspaper job, and a year later another, and several years
later another. I still consider myself basically a newspaperman,
though for the past five years I have been on the other side of the
copy desk, in advertising and public relations.

World War II is, of course, an indelible memory. The three years
as an able-bodied seaman and deck officer in the Merchant Marine, I
look back upon with pleasure, though I can recall too the boredom
of war, and the grief. For twelve years after the war I was with
the daily newspaper in Stamford, Connecticut, as reporter, political
columnist, city editor. I experienced also, during that period, in-
creasingly high blood pressure and the threat of an ulcer.

The second major upheaval in my twenty-five years of post-
graduate life climaxed in my 1958 departure for Reno, equipped
only with a suitcase which I like to say was filled with money, but
was not. I do feel that I came of age in Nevada, though it was a
painful process. I came to know myself, and much of other people —
a revelation to one who had kept himself closed so long.

My life seems stable now. I have no great, frustrating wants. I
have adjusted to my capacity and my expectations. My work in
public relations is challenging and keeps me generally on a routine
commute between home and office, with an occasional reach to
Cape Kennedy, Houston, Washington.

There are positive satisfactions. I feel I have done, and am doing,
some things well in the newspapering and public relations work

[ 617 ]

7
il meena ii ete aetenee een ane ne ce RRR SE te

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

that I have followed. My daughter Charlotte, by my first marriage,
completed college last year and is now teaching. I have inherited
several children by my second marriage, and son Walter Rockwell,
born last year, is a delight as the child “of my old age.”

I am looking forward to the Fiftieth Class Reunion, hoping to

have as much difficulty telescoping the second twenty-five years
as I do the first. |

SCHUYLER HOLLINGSWORTH

 

HOME apprEss: Mainstone Farm, Wayland, Mass,
OFFICE ADDRESS: Annett Lumber Co., Inc., Jaffrey, N.H.
PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LL.B., 1943(47); M.F. (Yale
Univ.), 1955.

MarrigD: Pauline Curtis (divorced 1961); Anne Grant Marshall, 1961. cHIL-
DREN: Schuyler, Jr., Oct. 29, 1946, Frazier Curtis, Nov. 21, 1948; Amor, 2d,
1953; James F. C., May 28, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Amor Hollingsworth, ’31, M.B.A., 33.

OCCUPATION: President and treasurer, Annett Lumber Company, Inc., manu-
facturers of knotty pine paneling, since 1957.

OFFICES HELD: Lawyer, Bingham, Dana & Gould, Boston, 1947-53; head of Way-
land Chapter, American Red Cross, 1953; chairman, Town Planning
Board, Dublin, N.H., 1960; vice-president, New England Kiln-Drying As-
sociation, 1963; member, board of directors, Infants’ Hospital, Boston,
1950-53, Hollingsworth-Vose Company, Walpole, Mass., since 1957; trus-
tee and treasurer, Christ Church, Islesboro, Maine, 1957-64,

MEMBER OF: Society of American Foresters; Fly Club; Somerset Club; The
Country Club, Brookline, Mass.

AFTER graduation in 1940 I completed one year at Harvard Law
School. Wartime duty in the US. Signal Service followed. Our
signal intelligence detachment went out to Calcutta, India, in 1943

[ 618 ]

— nll cout

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

by Liberty ship via Hobart, Tasmania, and Colombo, Ceylon, taking
sixty-five days and arriving at the peak of the famine of that year.
Over two years of intercepting Japanese radio messages followed
with one delightful leave on a houseboat on Dal Lake, Srinagar,
Kashmir.

Discharged on New Year’s Eve, 1945, from Camp Devens, I
returned to Harvard Law School in February, 1946, graduating in
June, 1947. In September of that year I went to work for Bingham,
Dana & Gould in Boston, with Classmate Joe Edwards. After five
and a half years of banking, probate and corporation law practice,
I had the quixotic notion of changing professions and journeyed to
New Haven where, after two years of class and field work in Con-
necticut and Arkansas, I graduated with a Master of Forestry degree.

Moving from Wayland, Massachusetts, to Dublin, New Hamp-
shire, I then purchased a defunct pine box company and learned
a great deal about the lumber industry. Seven years later, having
built up an interesting, but non-profit, kiln-dried pine paneling busi-
ness with distribution from Maine to Long Island, I am looking for
new fields and have returned to live in Wayland, Massachusetts.

Anne and I are living in a house with the extraordinary asset of
a squash court off the kitchen. Classmates please note. I use some
of my forestry training on 1700 acres of woodlots scattered around
southern New Hampshire and northern Massachusetts.

My politics get more liberal as my years increase, indicating
senility and poorer judgment, or greater heart and confidence in
our country? [I know not.

I find life enormously interesting and rewarding, and am grateful
to Harvard for the part it has played in it. While writing this, I am
awaiting Harvard’s decision on applications for admission by a son
and stepson for the fall of 1965. For their sake, I hope it will all
begin again.

[ 619 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

HARRY WENTWORTH HOLLMEYER

 

HOME ADDRESS: Timoteo da Costa 805, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

FFICE ADpREss: Avenida Rio Branco, 99, Rio de Janeiro, Brazil.

>REPARED AT: Beacon School, Wellesley Hills, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

AARRIED: Blyth Martin, Aug. 21, 1947.

CCUPATION: Insurance brokerage; president, Johnson & Higgins Corretores
Associados de Seguros, Rio de Janeiro; Johnson & Higgins, S.A., Buenos
Aires; vice-president, Deltec Panamerica, S.A.

FFICES HELD: President, American Club of Rio de Janeiro, Harvard Club of
Brazil. .

EMBER OF: Arlberg Ski Club; Caterpillar Club.
JBLICATIONS: “Avalanche Valaisienne,” Ski Magazine, 1963.

OOKING back, with the: nostalgia which is probably known to

] expatriates, 1 start by remembering the lean first year after
-aduation, for its pleasures of learning to fly out of the old grass
Id in Everett, and the splendid emotions of spins and Immelmanns
rer the North Shore. Then other random memories of events
oved faster —sunsets at 20,000 feet over the Solomons — first
nlight on the Matterhorn — avalanche on the Hotaligrat.

Skiing has been a passion all my life —it has been an incalculable
ssing to enjoy this to such a degree until now, by combining
me-leaves and business and pleasure at the right times of year in
‘ious hemispheres.

As for other recollections of the span from Cambridge ’40 to Rio
— the last shoot with my old Labrador, a comrade for twelve
is — the flights of teal and Patagonian ducks in the lands to the
th... shooting (hunting) has fitted in well with my travels
—another sport enjoyed almost certainly to the detriment of

[ 620 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

more important matters (for a member of such an illustrious class
as ours).

But today, writing for our Report, what should really be chosen
for recall? The friendships formed during the war, and the later
companionships of skiung and hunting? The chance encounter in
the ski-lift queue which changed my profession from chemistry to
insurance — or the telephone ringing in the office in New York
late one night which decided my South American career? Perhaps
I should write of the pleasures of living abroad; the enjoyment of
friends and associates of varied nationalities; the satisfaction of learn-
ing foreign languages; or best of all, a marriage enjoyed for more
than seventeen years —a wife who will trudge through the duck-
marshes before dawn — who will ski (in good or even bad weather)
mountains more imposing than the Headwall seemed to us in under-
graduate days... .

The ideal should be to put some of this down here as would
Hemingway — or Perelman. But such possibilities are left to writer-
members of our Class, while I am thinking of using this occasion
for two purposes.

The first concerns the past, and our classmates killed at war. If
it turns out that there are no other plans at Reunion, then this is a
request to remember them all, in our own way. I should not like to
think of their bravery as forgotten by any of us.

The second concerns the future, and this opportunity to appeal
to the widespread members of ’40, for better understanding of our
neighbors down here, and a clearer view of their problems and ours.
The Brazilian Revolution of March, 1964, is a recent specific example
of where this was needed-— when the leading newspapers of the
USS., influential politicians, and respected (leftist) college professors
all erred publicly in claiming that this was just another military
takeover —ignoring the desperately close escape from a second
Cuba (a matter of days and hours) of the 70,000,000 inhabitants of
Brazil, the next-largest nation of our hemisphere, bordering on
almost all other important South American countries.

There is here a job for all classmates, to make sure that such grave
problems are recognized with far, far better objectivity than in the
past — to assure that our country demonstrates the leadership that
Latin American citizens are looking for — to guarantee that we have
no more Bays of Pigs.

To be more specific, let us take special care that support is directed
to those Senators and candidates for the U.S, Congress who are

[ 621 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

more international-minded and Jess demagogic — and let us take
further concern that they and others in Washington recognize and
act upon the need for highest-calibre people as members of our
State Department — a vital key to our problems all over the world
as well as here. (Highly reconmnended reading — “Cuba, Castro
and John F. Kennedy: Reflections on U.S. Foreign Policy” —
Richard M. Nixon, Reader’s Digest, November, 1964.)

Now, to finish, unburdened of this message — to complain that
time has gone too fast since the Tercentenary celebrations which
heralded with fireworks our momentous arrival at the Yard in
1936... but as it passes and as comparisons arise in travels in
other regions, my appreciation for the Institutions of our Alma

Mater has not dimmed but only become reinforced — Viva Jodo
(Juan) Harvard! a

GEORGE WOOD HOLTZLANDER

 

HOME appress: 7 South Trail, Indian Field, Wilmington, Del. 19803.

OFFICE appress: Engineering Technology Laboratory, E. I. duPont de Nemours
& Co., Wilmington, Del. 19898.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

Marriep: Anna Elizabeth Holland, June 19, 1948. CHILDREN: Christine Eliza-
beth, Feb. 13, 1953; Joseph Holland, Feb. 15, 1956.

occupation: Engineering technician —chemical engineering.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author of several published papers on such subjects as solu-
bility of gases in solvents and measurement techniques for vapor pressures

of solutions; co-author of a private report on the diffusivity of a solvent
in a polymer.

FOR the bulk of the past twenty-five years I have worked as an
operator and technician for a large chemical and textile fiber manu-

{ 622 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

facturing company at a variety of tasks ranging from flour sweeping
to the writing of technical reports. Some of the assignments have
been intensely stimulating, others boring as watching haircuts.

Far more challenging than my job has been the joint task, with
my wife, of raising two talented but exasperating (and lovable)
adopted children on a modest salary.

My interest in the social sciences has continued and grown (as an
avocation) over the years. I spend what time there is left over
from work, home drinking and community affairs, reading and
studying in the field. This provides me with material for lively de-
bates with my wife, a graduate social worker, and my fellow
workers.

The recent political campaign convinced me, however, of the
futility of arguing with right-wingers. As a result of my long held
and work experience reinforced convictions, I remain pretty much
a broad gage liberal favoring liberal Republicans and middle of the
road Democrats.

LEONARD CALVIN HOLVIK

a

Sere. A pais tie iaae

  

HOME ADDRESS: 420 S.W. 18th St., Richmond, Ind.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Earlham College, Richmond, Ind.

PREPARED AT: Elbow Lake High School, Elbow Lake, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: $.B., magna cum laude, 1940; A.M., 1942.

MARRIED: Cecile Favreau, June 26, 1943. CHILDREN: Karen, Feb. 16, 1946; Peter
Leonard, Sept. 19, 1948; Claire Lucille, June 12, 1950.

OccUPATION: College teacher of music.

MEMBER OF: College Music Society; American Musicological Society.

IN the year following college I enjoyed a Sheldon Fellowship which
allowed me to travel in the United States and Mexico studying

[ 623 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

musical conditions and the institutions which support music. It
ended with a summer job assisting in the management of the New
Orleans Symphony Orchestra. This brush with the facts of life
sent me back to Cambridge where I got the A.M. in music in rgq2.
During the following summer I served as acting assistant dean of
freshmen. (How low on the totem pole can you get?) The Army
needed Japanese linguists and I enrolled with many others in a
course in that delightful and frustrating language. This led to four
years of Army work in Japanese, plus some close order drill, and
finally some administrative work of sorts.

In 1942 I had met Cecile, then a Radcliffe senior, and in 1943 we
were married. In 1946 we returned to Cambridge with our first
child and remained in graduate study until 1949 when Earlham
College asked Woody to recommend someone for their Music De-
partment. He sent me.

There could not have been a more fortuitous event in our lives. A
career of research in music was not clearly attractive to me and there
were more than casual signs that others had doubts. Teaching and
conducting in the tradition which relates in some ways, I hope, to
that of Woody and Doc has taken most of my attention and energy
since then. This college, conducted by Quakers in their non-
dogmatic religious manner, has been an ideal place for us to work
and live.

In recent years, the ferment of interest in non-western studies has
generated one of the strongest undergraduate programs in the
country here, and my earlier experience in Japanese has become
valuable in a new way. As part of this program, I have spent eight-
een months of the time since June, 1962, in Japan, and my wife and
two younger children have been there for an even longer stay. My
assignment was the study of Japanese traditional music, but we all
found our interests spreading out into all aspects of Japanese life.
Aside from projected articles for publication, the experience has

~ resulted in changed points of view in my teaching and in lectures
and demonstrations on Japanese music here and at other colleges.

I am not addicted to reunions or even returns to the site of earlier
experience, but returns to the standards and to the sources repre-
sented by Harvard are daily things for me and for many others, I
am sure, who rarely appear in Cambridge. Writing this report, a
task which seemed pretty onerous at first, has been another re-

minder and a return of sorts. 1 appreciate the efforts of those who
are pushing me to get this thing in. Thanks.

[ 624 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT HOMANS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 145 5 Bridge Rd., Hillsborough, Calif.

OFFICE appREss: Morrison, Foerster, Holloway, Clinton & Clark, 1100 Crocker
Bldg., San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 19403 LL.B., 1943 (48).

marrieD: Mary Aldrich, Jan. 12, 1946. CHILDREN: Robert, Jr., Oct. 12, 1946,
Lucy Aldrich, Feb. 18, 1949; Abigail, Oct. 24, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Caspar Homans, ’32.

occupaTION: Lawyer; partner, Morrison, Foerster, Holloway, Clinton & Clark.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Crocker Estate Company, San Francisco (and afhliated
companies), Suburban Realty Company and Pacific Air Commerce Cen-
ter, Inc.; director, United Crusade of San Mateo County, 1954-61; mem-
ber, board of governors, United Bay Area Crusade, 1955-60; director, Bay
Area Welfare Planning Federation; trustee, Grace Cathedral and Cate
School; member, West Coast Advisory Committee, Institute of Interna-
tional Education; member, National Committee, Program for Harvard
Medicine; president, 1961-62, director, Harvard Club of San Francisco;
member, Harvard College Fund, 1949-55; director, Harvard Alumni Asso-
Ciation, since 1963.

MEMBER OF: Pacific Union Club, San Francisco; Burlingame Country Club,
Hillsborough, Calif.

HAVING taken Naval Science for four pleasant years, upon gradua-
tion I received a commission in the Naval Reserve and was able to
complete one year at the Harvard Law School before the Navy
called me to active duty in June, 1941. Spent most of my time
during the war in various parts of the Pacific, serving on a World
War I Destroyer and a Jeep Carrier built by Kaiser. After my re-
lease from active duty, was married to Mary Aldrich in January of
1946 and returned to the Law School in February of that year.
Taking the advice of a great uncle, who was supposed to have
said the following about Boston, “I have tried it drunk and I have

[ 625 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

tried it sober and there is nothing in it,” I took the summer of 1947
off from the Law School and went out to San Francisco where I was
lucky enough to be promised a job for the following spring. This,
of course, necessitated buying a house and the ugly economic facts
of life hit home in a hurry. [ returned to the Law School that fall
for one last term and graduated in the winter of 1948. Since that
time we have been living in the very pleasant town of Hillsborough,
which is about twenty miles south of San Francisco. Although not
so long ago this was considered country it is now strictly “Suburbia
Heights,” ” but very agrecable living j just the same.

I ‘have been practising with the law firm of Morrison, Foerster,
Holloway, Clinton & Clark since the spring of 1948 in San Francisco,
and became a partner in that firm in 1956. My practice has been
mostly in the corporate field but have taken part in a few trials, 1 in-
cluding a very tough criminal one.

I have been involved i in a good many civic activities, but perhaps
the most interesting of these is serving as a trustee of Grace
Cathedral, which is located on the top of Nob Hill in San Francisco.
This is the first Episcopal Cathedral to be completed in the United
States. It was dedicated on November 20, 1964.

With regard to Harvard connections, I have been fortunate.
Back in 1949 the then head of the Harvard Alumni Association ap-
pointed me to the Harvard Fund Council. He said he was doing it
only because of my geographical location, but in any case it gave
me an excuse to go back to Cambridge on several occasions. “Then
in 1963 I was elected a director of the Harvard Alumni Association.
These activities, plus having been president of the Harvard Club of
San Francisco for a couple of years, have kept me fairly close to
what is going on in Cambridge.

Hopefully, by the time this Report is printed, our only son, Bob,
will have been admitted to Harvard. He is in his last year at St.
George’s School in Newport. We have kept our elder daughter,
Lucy, aged sixteen, out here at Crystal Springs School for Girls, and —
she hopes to go to an eastern college in a couple of years. Our

youngest child, Abigail, nine, is in the fourth class at the local public
school around the corner from where we live.

We have had some very successful vacations: two pack trips in
the High Sierras, fishing an the McKenzie River in Oregon, a
wonderful boat ride down the Middle Fork of the Salmon River in
the Idaho wilderness area, several trips of varying lengths to Europe,
and quite a few pleasant weeks in Dark Harbor, Maine.

[ 626 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

We have played a good deal of golf and have especially enjoyed
playing at the Valley Club near Santa Barbara and on the great Cy-
press Point course on the Monterey Peninsula. My wife is an avid
gardener and has become an expert on raising orchids. I plan s some-

day to put this hobby on a paying basis and then I shall retire.

GARFIELD HENRY HORN

  
  

SEIT I EE OPN SETTER tN eh NL eee en ACR

\
2
i ;
“eH

   

wary 6

HOME AppRESS: 6 rue Jean Richepin, Paris 16, France.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sullivan & Cromwell, 17 ave. Matignon, Paris 8, France.

PREPARED AT: Culver Military Academy, Culver, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1940; LLB.
cum laude, 1943(46).

MARRIED: Alexandra Matz, Dec. 12, 1942. CHILDREN: Garfield Henderson,.-
Aug. 24, 1945; Jennifer, Nov. 21, 1947; Charles Matz, Sept. 28, 1951, Leslie
Hollingsworth, Aug. 23, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Law; partner in law firm.

OFFICES HELD: General counsel, European Headquarters, U.S. Economic Co-
operation Administration, 1950-51; trustee, Harvard Law School Associa-
tion of New York, 1953-56, Village of Lloyd Harbor, 1957-62; member,
President’s Task Force on Foreign Economic Assistance, 1961.

MEMBER OF: American and New York City Bar Associations; American So-
ciety of International Law; American Judicature Society; Council on-
Foreign Relations; Foreign Policy Association; Century Association,
Knickerbocker Club and Cold Spring Harbor Club (all New York); The
Travellers (Paris); The Polo (Paris).

PusLicaTions: Articles in various legal publications,

EXCEPT for two periods of government service, my entire pro-
fessional career has been spent with the same law firm in New York
City, since 1952 as a partner of this firm. With reasonable con-
stancy, I have pursued the specialty of private international law.
Although most of my work has involved putting out bond issues

[627 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

for foreign governments, negotiating foreign concession agreements
for mining companies, planning the international sales networks of
electronics companies or otherwise concerning myself with the
affairs of large corporations, I have also been involved with the
more personal problems of people who die, divorce or make motion
pictures in foreign places, as well as with a wide variety of other
kinds of legal problems, since my specialty is in fact not so much
a specialty as it is the general practice of law in transactions in-
volving the laws of different countries. My work has involved
much travel to many parts of the world, and I have long since
flown my first half-million miles.

In addition to calling regularly at the conventional ports in
Europe and the Far East, I have practised my trade in the Australian
outback, the Liberian rain forest, the Lapland tundra, and others
of the world’s more remote places. For the past several years, I
have been based in Paris as the partner in charge of my firm’s
European office.

All of this has left me with little opportunity for extracurricular
involvements, Although I have tried from time to time to concern
myself with seminars at Harvard Law School or study groups at
the Council on Foreign Relations or trustee’s meetings in my Long
Island village, my experience has usually been that I have found
myself on the road when the meetings were being held. My way
of life has also left me with far too little time with my family.
My wife and children have also seen many foreign places, but
there has been a great deal of separation. We all hope that when
we return to New York from Paris, my life will be a little more
normal than it has been until now. I look forward to a time when
I can leave my home on a Monday morning with a fair expectancy
of seeing my wife and children (or those of them who still remain

with us) in the evening of the same day rather than an evening
two weeks beyond.

[ 628]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALBERT JAMES HORNE

 

MAILING ADDRESS; ¢/o American Embassy, Khartoum, Sudan.

DONALD FREDERICK HORNIG

    

HOME ADDRESS: 2810 Brandywine St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The White House, Washington, D.C,

PREPARED AT: Milwaukee Country Day School, Milwaukee, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1940; PH.D 19435 LL.D.
(Temple Univ.), 1964.

marrieD: Lilli Schwenk, July 17, 1943. cHupren: Joanna, May 24, 1947; Ellen,
Nov. 2, 1950; Christopher, April 26, 1953; Leslie, April 23, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur William Hornig, ’46,

occupation: Government service; Special Assistant to the President for Science
and Technology; director, Office of Science and Technology. (On leave -
as Donner Professor of Science, Princeton University.)

OFFICES HELD: Group leader, Los Alamos, 1944~46; assistant, associate and full
professor, 1946-57, director, Metcalf Research Laboratory, 1949-57, asso-
ciate and acting dean, Graduate School, 1951-53, Brown University; presi-
dent, Radiation Instruments Company, 1945-47; Donner Professor of

[629]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

fessor of Science, devoting myself with renewed energy to scholar
efforts, although T also learned to build stone walls and supply he
manual labor for the extensive gardening efforts directed by Lili
around our verv relaxing home above the lake. My chronic inabili

to sav no, the source of most of the interesting as well as the diff-
cult turns in mv affairs, soon got me off the track again and in
1959 I agreed to serve on the Space Science Board of the National
Academy of Sciences. As a result, I became involved in the dis-
cussions of space cooperation with the Russians, first at the UN
and later in Geneva and Rome, which finally led to an agreement.
Later that vear, President Eisenhower appointed me to the Presi-
dent's Science Advisory Committee, of which Harvard’s Professor
kistiakowsky was chairman. PSAC is a demanding organization
and from that point onward I became increasingly involved in
Washington.

4

 

Mv family never really liked my extensive travels or the commut-
ing to Washington almost every week, so they were relieved when
President Kennedy asked me to become his Special Assistant for
Science and Technology and I accepted. That was a month before
his death; we did not know where we stood until President Johnson
asked me again, and in January, 1964, we moved to Washington.

My stay here has involved me in the most strenuous life and the
hardest work since the wartime days at Los Alamos. The problems
with which I am involved are varied, frequently frustrating, but
often enough rewarding to have produced a certain satisfaction
from the knowledge that at least a little has been achieved. The
problems in Washington are complex, but it has given us the
opportunity to associate with people of great and varied talents,

who want to do big things. It would be hard to avoid the stimula-
tion this brings.

 

At this moment I am on leave from Princeton and dream of re-
turning to my laboratory and my students. But I also like the op-
portunity to deal with immediate pressing problems, so it would
be hard to predict what the future may hold. My recent election

to the Board of Overseers gives me something worthwhile for six
years, in any Case.

[ 632 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GORDON LORD HOUGH

py omee ne
ge . -

rt

  

HOME aAppbrEss: 80 Christie Hill Rd., Darien, Conn.

OFFICE apprEss: Lincoln Center for the Performing Arts, 1960 Broadway,
New York 23, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Barbara Kiger, April 15, 1950. CHILDREN: Elizabeth Penland, July 9,

_ 1953; Barbara Lord, Jan. 27, 1955; Gordon Lord, Jr., Feb. 23, 1957.

@CCUPATION: Public relations.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary and trustee, National Art Museum of Sport, since
1959; associate, Darien Citizens for Good Education, 1957-58; member,
Advisory Committee, Choate Alumni Bulletin, since 1950; member, Rains-
ford House Alumni Association, since 1948; commander, USNR; com-
manding officer, VAU-311, 1950, member, 1950-58, member, NRCC 3-45,
since 1958.

MEMBER OF: Public Relations Society of America; American College Public
Relations Association; Industrial Audio-Visual Association; Harvard Club
of New York; Tokeneke Club, Darien, Conn.

puBLIcaTIoNs: Articles for general and professional magazines; also light
verse.

TO a fortunate few, this assignment comes easily; to many of us
a summing-up demands the “red-herring” technique of History
1—the deft evasion of the question by a tangential answer of
impressive solidity and documentation. It often works, so here’s
hoping . . . Furthermore, with an unusual number of psychiatrists
in our Class, baring one’s past is more than just risky. OK, boys,
get in line.

With several summer jobs under my belt, I skipped the mailroom
routine by which 1940 industry trained its aspiring executives and
joined the circulation department of Bernarr MacFadden's muscle
empire. Highlights of those months were: 1) daily calisthenics,

[ 633 J

— Ln an

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

forebears. We're the losers for it, but I submit the church anc
we share the blame, if blame it is.

Extra-curricular activities include the Naval Reserve (you'll ali
feel safer knowing I’m a commander), participation in local educa-
tion projects to make good schools better, and serving as a trustee
of the National Art Museum of Sport. Cooked up after a tennis
game with Germain Glidden (Harvard ’35), this is dedicated to
fostering a greater public interest in art through the medium of
sport, two fields which have been closely allied over the centuries.
We arrange exhibitions, give prizes for sporting art, and eventually
plan our own building. Meanwhile, our membership is growing
and we welcome inquiries from sport and/or art lovers.

Sports is still a major interest, and as a family we pursue tennis,
skating, swimming, camping and some skiing. My tennis game

surprises my generation, and last summer I reached the semi-finals
of a singles tournament!

+ ALDER BLUMER HOWE

 

Born: April 19, 1918, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Paul Denckla Howe, Helen
Blumer.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.
pep: Killed in action, Jan. 2, 1943, at Solomon Islands.

AFTER graduation Howe worked for the Pennsylvania Company
before joming the Marine Corps as a private in August, 1941. He
was commissioned a second lieutenant in April, 1942, assigned to a
machine-gun detachment and sailed for the South Pacific the
following August. He saw action at Guadalcanal and was promoted

to first heutenant shortly before his death in the Solomon Islands.
He was survived by his parents.

[ 636 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SILAS WILDER HOWLAND, JR.

 

MAILING ApprEss: Westford Drive, Southport, Conn,

ROBERT STUART HOYT

 

HOME ADpRESS: 1859 Sargent Ave., St. Paul, Minn, 55105.

OFFICE appreEss: University of Minnesota, Minneapolis, Minn. 55455.

PREPARED AT: Shorewood High School, Shorewood, Wis,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940; A.M., 19423

PH.D., 1949.
MARRIED: Maurine K. Larson. cHiLpreN: Stuart C.; Jane D.; Martha M.

occuPATION: Professor of history.
PUBLICATIONS: Europe in the Middle Ages, Harcourt, Brace, New York, 1957;
Feudal Institutions, Holt, Rinehart, New York, 1961; The Royal Demesne,

Cornell University Press, Ithaca, 1950.

“HAPPY is the country that has no history,” according to an old
saw. If this applies to individuals and their biographies, mine has

been a happy life.
[ 637 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

I have enjoyed teaching, research and writing. The academic life
is congenial and rewarding (in other ways, of course, than finan-
cially). My research has necessitated two sabbatical years spent
in England, which my family and I enjoy ed very much.

During World War II, I served in the Infantry, attached to
Headquarters, Replacement and School Command, where I helped
write the history of ground forces training for A.G.F. It was an
interesting assignment.

My son is now serving in the Air Force; one daughter i is at Stan-
ford and the other is in junior high school.

+ WILLIAM TYSON HULL

 

BORN: Oct, 2, 1918, Lancaster, Pa, PARENTS: Relph Barton Hull, Nettie Young.
PREPARED aT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N_J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936~1937.

piep: Aug. 175 1937, in Austria.

WILLIAM TYSON HULL spent the freshman year with our Class.
He was shooting rapids on the Salzach River near Salzburg when
the craft capsized. He was rescued, but when he sought to recover
the canoe, he fell into the water and was drowned.

[ 638 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID MILFORD HUME

 

HOME aAbpREss: 6605 Three Chopt Rd., Richmond, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Medical College of Virginia, Richmond, Va.

PREPARED AT: Muskegon Senior High and Junior College, Muskegon, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B,, 1940; M.D. (Univ. of Chicago), 1943.

MarrigD: Martha E. L. Egloff, May 2, 1943 and May 29, 1943 (we married
twice). CHILDREN: Susan Stayner, May 26, 1944; Joan Frazer, May 2,
1946; Martha Crane, Jan. 17, 1949; Jeffry Castleman, July 13, 1953.

occupation: Professor of surgery and chairman, Department of Surgery, Med-
ical College of Virginia.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in surgery, 1951-55, director, Laboratory of Surgical
Research, 1951-56, assistant professor of surgery, 1955-56, Harvard Medical
‘School; Stuart McGuire Professor of surgery and chairman, Department
of Surgery, Medical College of Virginia, since 1956, surgeon-in-chief,
Medical College Hospitals, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Endocrine Society; American Medical Association; New York
Academy of Sciences; Boston and Virginia Surgical Societies; Virginia
Medical Association; Richmond Academy of Medicine; Society of Uni-
versity Surgeons; American Society for Clinical Investigation, American
Surgical Association; Southern Surgical Association; Society for Vascular
Surgery; Society for Experimental Medicine & Biology; Society for Ex-
perimental Pathology; Society of Clinical Surgeons; Halsted Society;
Surgery Study Section, NIH.

PUBLICATIONS: About 150 publications, primarily in fields of neuroendocrinology,
transplantation and vascular and endocrine surgery; two books under way.

THE summer after graduation I worked, as I had the previous
three summers, on the collecting crew of the Marine Biological
Laboratory, in Woods Hole, Massachusetts. At the conclusion of
this summer, having been requested by the management not to
return to this employment after a night of debauchery the climax
of which was the bombardment of the embryology laboratory with
sky rockets, I hied myself off to medical school at the University

[ 639]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

of Chicago. During the three and one-half years I spent there, I
continued the research I had begun in college, taught in the De-
partment of Anatomy, had various odd jobs totaling forty hours
a week, and ate for tw enty-seven cents a day. I lived in a third
floor, six-man, twenty- -four hours a day, revolving bachelor apart-
ment directly across from the west stands of Stage Field, where,
one hundred feet from where we lived, the first chain reaction in
history took place. This event was later to become responsible for
the abrupt end of the war in the Pacific, leading thus to a dissolu-
tion of the force then forming in Pearl Harbor for the invasion of
Japan, one of the least far-reaching consequences of which was to
dump me, in 1945, at Honolulu instead of Tokyo.

Six months before graduation from medical schoo] I married a
Bennington girl I had pursued summers in Woods Hole, and on
graduation day we took the train for Boston and surgical internship
and assistant residency at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital. My
wife, who was by then three months pregnant, took up abode in an
apartment near the Fenway where for the next eighteen months I
saw her just often enough to discover that she had given birth to
a child (female) and, just at the end of this period, that she was
expecting another.

After a brief interlude in the Navy, and the birth of a second
daughter in Honolulu, we returned to the Brigham and further
surgical training and research. The chief residency in 1950 was
follow ed by the directorship of the surgical research laboratory at
Harvard, continued studies in neuroendocrinology and transplanta-
tion, and the first kidney transplants in man to show significant
function. Another tour in the Navy, this time at the Naval Medical
Research Institute, Bethesda, and back to the Brigham again as
assistant professor of surgery at Harvard. By this time there were
two more children, a girl and a boy.

In the summer of 1956, I went to the Medical College of Virginia
as professor and chairman of the Department of Surgery, and
surgeon-in-chief of the Medical College Hospitals. Here we have
developed an active surgical residency program and extensive ex-

perimental and clinical centers for research training in transplanta-
tion.

Our two elder daughters are in Goucher, one a junior and one
a freshman, our third daughter is a sophomore in high school and
our son is about to enter junior high. We have two farms where
Wwe raise registered Angus, mongrel horses, black sheep and assorted

[ 640 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

livestock; and my favorite pastime is building roads and clearing
land with the bulldozer.

Domestic travel is disturbingly frequent for meetings, NIH site
visits, pro tem professorships, talks, etc. We get abroad for whirl-
wind visits every three years or so, and back to Woods Hole for
a brief stay almost every summer. We live in an old brick colonial
house where the lights are on most of the night, the halls swarm
with four dogs and hordes of teen-agers, and the day starts with
the same breakfast I discovered in medical school —a coke and a
doughnut (takes one minute, no dishes, lots of energy, costs nine
cents).

WILLIAM BROWN HUMES

   

HOME apprEss: 1 France PI., Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Union Carbide Corp., 270 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lower Merion High School, Ardmore, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: S.B., 1940(41).

Marrigp: Geraldine Hart, 1946. caitpreNn: Kathryn Hart, May 13, 1947; Steven
William, Feb. 28, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Union Carbide Corporation.

oFFicEs HELD: Director, Society of Plastics Industry; trustee, Larchmont Ave-
nue Church.

MEMBER OF: Larchmont Yacht Club; Pinnacle Club.

[ 641 ]

MRE ce scp
pe anaes

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

THOMAS BALDWIN HUNNEWELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 136 E. 55th St., New York, N.Y. 10022.

OFFICE ADprEss: Harris, Upham & Co., 445 Park Ave., New York, N.Y. 10022.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940. |
UNMARRIED,

HARVARD BROTHERS: James Frothingham Hunnewell, °37; Richard Farnsworth
Hunnewell, ’44.

OCCUPATION: Securities investments; registered representative, Harris, Upham
& Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Grolier Club; Tennis and Racquet
Club, Boston.

WHEN we contemplate the period through which we have lived
from our graduation to the present, we can only marvel. From the
time of great peril with our badly-equipped and under-strength
forces, that most of us were destined to serve with, to the present
when we are actually cutting back our military establishment, it is
scarcely believable. Like many others in the Class, I spent five years
in the Army, first with the 26th (Yankee) Division, then com-
missioning at Fort Sill, Oklahoma, in the Field Artillery, then several
assignments in the States, including seven months as CO of a Head-
quarters Battery, and finally overseas in the Fifth Army in Northern
Italy during the last two campaigns of the war. During the occupa-
tion for most of the rest of the year at Allied Force Headquarters
in Caserta, Italy.

Between active duty service in the war and my present duties, I
had quite a long interlude in the publishing business. It was some-
thing over five years with Houghton Mifflin Company in New

York and Chicago, and later special assignments with Henry Holt
and Harvard University Press.

[ 642 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

With the type of contact work and idea development work in

ublishing behind me, I thought I could transfer this experience to
a Wall Street House like Harris, Upham & Company. It has worked
out very well I am glad to report. And even though the country is
faced with new and deadly challenges, and even though marriage
has still eluded me, I look to the future with great confidence.

‘+ BLAIR THEODORE HUNT, JR.

 

BORN: May 28, 1919, Memphis, Tenn. parents: Blair Theodore Hunt, Ernestine
Martin,

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938, 1939-1943. DEGREES: A.B. 1940(42); M.D. (Howard

.Univ.), 1949. ;
MARRIED: Inez Robinson, 1945, Baltimore, Md. (divorced 1951); Bertha Mc-

Guinn, June, 1956. cHmp: Marsha, April 15, 1946.
DIED: Aug. 15, 1956, Cambridge, Mass.

BLAIR THEODORE HUNT, JR., worked as a chemist in Civil
Service and had been a seaman in the Merchant Marine before
entering medical school. After receiving his M.D. degree and
internship, he served a residency in psychiatry at the Boston State
Hospital and was a research fellow in psychiatry at Harvard. At
the time of his death, he was a physician at the Boston Psychopathic
Hospital where he had been working in child psychiatry. He was

survived by his wife.

[ 643 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JOHN HIGGINSON HUNTINGTON

SRST a AOE
8 ETNA
wy ans

a :

  
 

od

  

HOME ApprEss: 49 Sydney St., London, S.W. 3, England.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Putnam & Co,, Ltd., 42 Great Russell St., London, W.C, 1,
England.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

marrieD: Kathleen Margaret Chadburn, July 7, 1947. campren: Anne Chad-
burn, May 31, 1948; Peter Chadburn, April 21, 1950; Paul Adams, May 12,
1954; Benjamin James, June 25, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Benjamin Lincoln Huntington, ’34, m_v., 738.

occupation: General book publisher; sales director and general manager, Put-
nam & Company, Ltd., and Bowes & Bowes, Ltd. (publishers),

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Associated Harvard Clubs, several years, past
secretary, treasurer (acting), Harvard Club of London, past fifteen years.

MEMBER OF: Garrick Club, American Club, Press Club, Pater Nosters (all of
London).

puBLications: One short story in the Atlantic Monthly.

THE week before graduation I was already on my first job as a police
reporter in Chicago at fifteen dollars a week. I was fired a few
months later for refusing to find out whether an unmarried suicide
was pregnant or not. Back in the East I worked for nothing on the
Northampton Daily Gazette and enjoyed it tremendously! Then,
at fourteen dollars a week, I worked as a copyboy on the Boston
Traveler. After Pearl Harbor I looked around for some active war
job a 4-F could do and found the American Field Service.

Attached to the British Eighth Army, I was with the Tenth
Corps at El Alamein and went on up with the 30th Corps to the first
day’s fighting in Tripoli Gif driving an ambulance is fighting).
Then I was put in command at Aleppo unt I left the Field Service
in August, 1943, and came home.

I intended getting on the gravy train, but was so out of tune with

[ 644 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Civvy Street in wartime that I sought refuge in teaching and spent
a very enjoyable year and a half at Loomis Academy teaching
English and German and as faculty adviser to the school newspaper,
science club, etc. The last year I taught at Milton, a really beauti-
fully run school.

My uncle was head and owner of Putnam’s London, so I asked
him for a job and arrived in London August 11, 1946, becoming a
director of the firm in January, 1947. Since then it’s been all work
(8.30 to 6) and some play.

I enjoy life enormously and cannot imagine living anywhere else
than in Chelsea (London). I was really lucky when I got married
to a beautiful English girl who is now a fine mother and wife, and a
brilliant doctor. She has a big National Health obstetrical practice
in the district. I help her out a lot with the two phones, medical
forms and accounts.

One of my main hobbies is organizing the Harvard Club of Lon-
don. We have built the membership in fifteen years from.about 20
to 225, and we have a nice bank balance, too. Please look us up if
you come this way.

At the present moment I’m on to something really dynamic in
publishing that may at last lead to my pot of gold. If so I hope to
be back to our 25th. I shall be with you in spirit anyway.

WILLIAM CALLENDER HURTT

oT
&

2)

e.

XN

x.

ae

‘

F ‘

 

HOME abprEss: Laurel Drive, Box 165, Ligonier, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Federal Oil & Gas Co., 1715 Grant Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219.
PREPARED AT: Wilkinsburg High School, Wilkinsburg, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, 1940; LL.B, 1943 (46).

Marriep: Eleanor St. Clair, June 26, 1943. cHiLpREN: William Callender, Jrs

[ 645 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Nov. 21, 1944; Andrea Chapin, April 28, 1952; Elizabeth St. Clair, April
25, 1956.

HARVARD SON: William Callender Hurtt, Jr., 66

OCCUPATION: President, Federal Oil & Gas Company; partner, Cleland & Hurtt,
attorneys at law.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, The Arts League of Ligonier Valley; director, Heart
Association for Western Pennsylvania.

MEMBER OF: Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club; Rolling Rock Club; Pittsburgh Ath-
letic Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Patent No. 3086591 — Oil Well Cementer Tool.

IN the fall of 1940 I entered Harvard Law School and completed
two years before being drafted into the Army. In January of 1943,
I was commissioned as a second lieutenant in the Air Force and in
June of that year I married Eleanor St. Clair. »

After the war I returned to law school and completed my final
year there. Upon graduation we moved to Milwaukee where |
practised law for three years. In 1949 we returned to Pittsburgh
where I worked for a law firm until 1952 when I went into practice
for myself.

In 1953 I became involved in the oil and gas business as a result of
legal work for a client who had large land holdings in north
central Pennsylvania. Each year since 1953 I have become more and
more involved in the oil and gas business until ic now absorbs
almost all of my time.

In 1962 Eleanor and I moved the family to Ligonier, Pennsylvania,
which is located in the beautiful Ligonier Valley about fifty miles
east of Pittsburgh. The children enjoy riding and skiing. I spend
my free time hunting and fishing and Eleanor serves as the family
chauffeur.

My greatest concern over the past ten years has been the increas-
ing acceleration of that process by which we are enslaving our-
selves to the Federal government. If we continue on our present
course, I am convinced that most of us will be present at the burial
of the free enterprise system, and a Harvard man will probably
preside at the service.

[ 646 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WARD MacLEAN HUSSEY

 

* HOME ADpDREsS: 312 Princeton Blvd., Alexandria, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Room 159, Cannon House Office Bldg., Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940; A.M. (Col-
umbia Univ.), 1944; LL.B., cum laude (Harvard Univ.), 1946.

MARRIED: Anne Hutchinson, May 16, 1944. CHILDREN: Thomas Ward, Feb. 24,
1947; Carolyn Anne, Dec. 19, 1951; Wendy Elen, July 19, 1955.

occupation: Assistant counsel, Office of the Legislative Counsel, U.S. House of
Representatives.

RICHARD BRAKELEY HUTCHINS

   

HOME ADDRESS: 254 Salisbury St., Worcester, Mass. 01609.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Whitaker Reed Co., 90 May St., Worcester, Mass. 01601.

PREPARED AT: Taft School, Watertown, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarRiED: Suzanne Fradd, April 19, 1952. CHILDREN: Jane Kettell, March 1o,
1953; Lynn Fradd, June 21, 1954; Ann Brakeley, March 7, 1956; Judith,
Oct. 4, 1957; Louise, June 9, 1960.

[ 647 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

occupation: President, Whitaker Reed Company, textile equipment manufac-

turer.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since 1951, vice-president, since 1960, Worcester Hahne-
mann Hospital; vestryman, All Saints Episcopal Church, 1959-62, since
1963; director, National Motels, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester, Worcester Rotary Club.

pustications: U.S, Parent 2,914,094 re Loom Reed having Removable Dents.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation | went to work for the Alumi-
num Company of America and went on active duty in the Navy a
year later. In ten years I served on three destroyers and a cruiser,
spent two years at postgraduate school at the Naval Academy, one
year doing ordnance development work and a year in the guided
missile business in Washington. The duty stations were interesting
and varied and I still keep in touch with many of the people I met in
the Navy.

Returning to civilian life I went into the small ancestral business
manufacturing textile equipment and in 1952 married Suzanne
Fradd whose late father spent several years in the Physical Educa-
tion Department trying to improve the posture of Harvard stu-
dents. Five girls, the eldest of whom will be twelve at our 25th,
arrived in quite rapid succession. Among other hobbies I list golf,
sailing, skiing and woodworking.

Except for three months at the Advanced Management Program
at Harvard Business School, I have been struggling with the prob-
lems of a small business and taking part in the usual run of com-
munity projects. Helping the kids with their several interests and
repairing the wreckage that five youngsters generate occupy a lot
of spare time.

[ 648 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

++ JOHN HORTON IJAMS, JR.

 

BORN: Aug. 27, 1918, Lawrence, Long Island, N.Y. parents: John Horton
Ijams, ’07, Margaret Porter.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., #agna cum laude, 1940.

pieD: Killed in action, Jan. 12, 1943, in North Africa.

AFTER college Ijams spent a year at the Yale Law School before
enlisting in the Army Air Force. He graduated as a pilot in Feb-
ruary, 1942, was commissioned a second lieutenant and went over-
seas with the 97th Bombardment Group, participating as a pilot in
the first Flying Fortress raid over the Continent on Rouen, France,
in August, 1942. He was promoted to first lieutenant and was
awarded the Distinguished Flying Cross and Air Medal with three
oak-leaf clusters. He was killed in action in North Africa, while
returning from his thirtieth mission. He was survived by his parents.

[ 649 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

PAUL EDWARD ILLMAN, JR.

     

Soy EST RO ARRON RSENS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4611 W’. 72d Terr., Prairie Village, Kans.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Trans World Airlines, 1307 Baltimore, Kansas City, Mo.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MaRRIED: Susan Mann Pritchett, July 23, 1943. cHitpreEN: Paul Edward, 34d,

Jan. 26, 1949; Susan Blair, Nov. 15, 19513; Nancy Kyle, Dec. 3, 1953; Patri-
cia Bacon, March 12, 1956,

occupation: Manager, transportation management development and training.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, 1961-62, chairman, 1962-63, Prairie Village Repub-
lican Club; state chairman, Kansas Republican Workshop, 1962-63; mem-
ber, Board of Control, Trans World Airlines Management Club, 1963-64.

MEMBER OF: American Society for Training and Development, American Man-
agement Association; Kansas City Athletic Club; Homestead Country
Club, Prairie Village; Aircraft Owners and Pilots Association (AOPA).

THE relative security of academic life ended that day in June,
1940, and, for better or worse, we departed Cambridge in search of
what we individually thought was right for each of us. Some of us
found it completely, others perhaps not at all, while possibly a good
number settled for a happy compromise. I suppose I fall among the
last. These twenty-five years have not brought all that I wanted,
but on the other hand perhaps more than I realistically thought
likely.

Businesswise, I cast my Jot with aviation in general and with TWA
in particular. This began ten days after graduation, interrupted
only by three and a half years with the Air Corps as a pilot in-
structor —an interruption which, fortunately for me, tended to
further rather than hinder my career. Since returning to TWA, I
think above all I have found honest enjoyment in work in a variety

of positions ranging from sales to industrial relations to passenger
service to training. Particularly training.

[ 650 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I am currently responsible for management training and develop-
ment, international relations training, instructor training and custo-
mer relations training. These four areas, particularly management
training, provide both challenge and reward. Meeting with all levels
of management and trying to synthesize effectively for manage-
ment acceptance the research of social scientists — along with some
personal convictions — is the challenge; observing concrete results
of these efforts through improved managerial methods and employee
motivation is the reward.

Throughout this business career which has taken us to Boston,
New York and, for the past twelve years, Kansas City, my family
has been tolerant of the transitions while at the same time growing
in numbers. Each city added one or two members to a family not
large by some standards but just right for us. Our one son, now
fifteen, is currently at a military prep school and for the moment
seems to favor a military education with special emphasis on avia-
tion. With three daughters, I find none a likely Harvard prospect.

As to convictions, I have many, but few as strong as those political.
In one way or another, and most inadequately, I have tried to
contribute to the political philosophy which I believe is essential to
the perpetuation of our way of life — that of conservatism. Essen-
tially an optimist, I look with concern on the future of our political,
economic and social systems. I look with concern on the do-gooders,
the welfare statists, those who sell security to gain political per-
petuity. These so-called intellectuals are, I fear, slowly but suc-
cessfully bringing about the demise of the most successful system of
government ever devised by man. Perhaps we are in a temporary
and passing phase. I hope so. But I am not optimistic about the
country my children will inherit unless we return to individualism
and to positions of real — not oratorical — strength in facing our
avowed enemy — Communism.

Barring this one note of discord, however, I look back on a
fruitful twenty-five years with thankfulness for the good things
that have come my way and anticipate the future with energy and
with optimism.

[ 651]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

PHOENIX INGRAHAM, JR.

 

MAILING apprEss: 597 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y. 10017.

ARTHUR ISELIN, Js

r
i

|

P

  

HOME Appress: Fast Sullivan, N-H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Top Haven Toy Co., East Sullivan, N.H.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarRIED: Cornelia Page Wheelwright, Jan. 31, 1942. CHILDREN: Michael Page,
March 19, 1943; Virginia, Sept. 29, 1944, George, Sept. 20, 1948; Dorothy
Louise, July 1, 1950; Nina, Aug. 19, 1952; Peter Jay, June 14, 1954.

HARVARD SON: Michael Page Iselin, ’66.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Jay Iselin, ’29 (deceased).

OCCUPATION; Proprietor, Top Haven Toy Company, miniatures and models.

orrices HELD: President, Mohawk Motor Company, Inc., Geneva, N.Y., 1947~
54; cubmaster, Pack 45, Geneva, N.Y., 1949-53, Pack 301, Harrisville, N.H.,
1955-62, B.S.A.; chairman, Troop 554, G.S.U.S.A., Nelson, N.H., 1963-64;
chairman, Zoning Committee, 1957-59, Planning Board, 1959-62, Nelson,
N.HL,; treasurer, Monadnock Pony Club, US.P.C., since 1964; member of

[ 652 ]

2§$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

corporation, Monadnock Community Hospital; proprietor, Top Haven
Toy Company, since 1956.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, New York City, Fly Club, Cambridge,
Mass.; Dublin Lake Club, Dublin, N.H.; Chesham Lake Association,
Chesham, N.H.; Thistle Class Association, Urbana, Ill.; Bedford Historical

Society, Bedford, N.Y.

THEY say “War is Hell” and it usually is, but sometimes it can
be downright fascinating. Suffice it to say that I enlisted in the
1oist Cavalry regiment in January, 1941. After the Carolina |
maneuvers, Cornelia Wheelwright and 1 were married in New
Hampshire to the tune of a blinding snowstorm. After receiving
my commission and several jobs as an adjutant, I joined OSS as a
counter-intelligence officer and was off to Europe. I served in
France and Germany with the 6th Army Group and 7th Army.
Only the atom bomb cut short my redeployment to Japan. Happy
to be home, I stepped off the boat in New York City on V-J Day.

My first venture after the war was a business, an automobile
agency in Geneva, New York. Although I had had no business
experience, I had a wife and two children to support, and I did
know something about cars, a life-long hobby. With an income
provided, we raced cars at Watkins Glen and elsewhere, and started
to raise our children, whose number gradually increased to six.

My father’s death in 1952 and my mother’s in 1953 required my
presence near New York to settle their affairs. We stayed in the
old family house in Bedford for a few months, and in 1954 bought
my father-in-law’s old house in Nelson, New Hampshire.

The wooded New Hampshire countryside, its lakes, abandoned
roads, and deep woods are our Main Street. Although we ski,
sail, swim and cut wood, our principal athletic activity is horseback
riding and pony clubbing. Cia and I are gathering material for a
book on miniature outside landscapes of the world. This is a some-
what obscure subject about places such as Bekonscott, Madurodam,
Swissminiatur and Burton-on-the-Water. In addition, we are build-
ing one ourselves. We have made several research trips to Europe
in connection with miniature landscapes. We usually make our
headquarters in Switzerland, where we all spent a year during

1961-62.

[ 653 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ARTUR ISENBERG

 

HOME AND OFFICE apprerss: 28 Malcha Marg, Chanakyapuri, New Delhi, India.

PREPARED AT: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N.Y.; several schools in
Germany and Switzerland.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., C2772 laude, 1940.

marrieD: Shirley Ruth Berry, Radcliffe ’40, Dec. 15, 1940. CHILDREN: Bernard
Falk, Nov. 21, 1941; Mark Franklin, Nov. 16, 1945; Judith Eleanor, Dec. 2,
1950.

HARVARD SON: Bernard Falk Isenberg, ’62.

occupation: Consultant; program administrator for India, Master in (Inter-
national) Public Administration, Maxwell Graduate School of Citizenship
and Public Affairs, Syracuse University; concurrently, consultant on
Community Relations and Intercultural Affairs to the American Interna-
tional School, New Delhi, India. .

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors and executive committee, Inter-
National Cultural Centre, New Delhi, since 1961; member, Governing
Body and Council, Triveni Kala Sangam (School of Arts), New Delhi,
since 1961; honorary lifetime member, Book Industry Council of South
India, Madras, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: India International Centre, New Delhi; Madras Gymkhana Club.

pusLicaTions: “Modern Indian Literature,” published by Indian National
Academy of Letters in Indian Literature, V1, 1, A Home Library Plan
Manual, published by All India Home Library Plan Society; a dozen
technical articles on various publishing problems, published by UNESCO
and various publishing organizations, “Reflections on the Psychological
Insecurity of Modern Man,” published by Indian Institute of World Cul-
ture, “Challenge and Privilege: The Case for American Support of

Selected Cultural Projects in India,” “That Life May Remain,” et al.

LET'S see: After graduating in June "40, I joined my father’s now
defunct firm, Minerva Antiques, Inc., as assistant manager. When
the U.S. got into World War II and the Army didn’t like my
(somewhat) flat feet, I joined the Office of War Information (No-
vember, 1942) until mid-1947, first as “Jr. Multilingual Monitor,”

[ 654 ]

SADIE RST a: AERA Sag

SNORE BEM IR RES Bo:

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

later in a succession of other jobs. There followed a U.N. interlude
(1947-51) during which I worked as senior information officer,
liaison officer with the Economic and Social Council, etc. Most of
my work was at Lake Success and at the U.N.’s HQ building; but
I also served overseas: in Havana, Conference on Trade & Em-
ployment (November, 1947—March, 1948) and, with the U.N. Kash-
mir Commission, in India and Pakistan (March—December, 1949).
After the U.N. interlude, I re-joined the OWI, by then re-named
United States Information Agency, as Chief of the Far and Middle
East Desk of the Voice of America (1951-55). During this work
I attended the SEAT O-founding conference in Manila (Septem-
ber, 1954) as VOA correspondent. In April, 1955, I carried out a
survey of the South Indian publishing industry for the Ford Founda-
tion. Asa result of that survey, the Foundation financed the estab-
lishment of a non-profit institution, the Southern Languages Book
Trust (in Madras) which I served as senior Ford Foundation con-
sultant from 1955 until 1961, when I joined the Ford Foundation’s
headquarters in New Delhi as assistant to the Foundation’s repre-
sentative in India. The Foundation and I came to a very amicable
parting of the ways in September, 1963, on a policy matter: I
thought the Foundation ought to spend a penny or so out of each
Foundation dollar spent in India in support of the arts and human-
ities in India, the Foundation didn’t think so: et voila!

Having plenty of leisure between October, 1963, and mid-1964, I
made a fairly thorough survey of India’s foreign exchange handicaps
in the cultural sphere, then published the results in a report which
has since won unanimous (and unsolicited) endorsement from a
growing number of leading Indian cultural institutions, as well as
from VIPs in India and in the U.S. (endorsers include the U.S.
Library of Congress) and I now have some hope of positive action
in the not-too-distant future. (As one of my Indian respondents
poignantly observed: “. . while we are engaged in schemes to
make life livable for millions, we must also promote plans to make
the ‘livable’ life worth living.”)

Since mid-1964, my wife and I have been working as independent
consultants, for the time being in India. Our first major client was
and is the American International School which we advise on inter-
cultural student and adult activities, including advice on a cur-
riculum in Asian studies. A second client is Syracuse University’s
Maxwell Graduate School of Citizenship and Public Affairs, whose

[ 655 ]

eee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

DAVID ISRAEL ISNER

 

HOME AppRESS: 877 Pleasant St., Worcester, Mfass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Worcester State Hospital, Worcester, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940(41); D.M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1944.

MARRIED: Sylvia Weisenberg, Feb. 13, 1949. CHILDREN: Elliott, Jan. 10, 1950;
Arnold, Sept. 1, 1951.

MCCUPATION: Dentist.

MEMBER OF: American Dental Association; Massachusetts Dental Society.

AT Harvard I majored in premedical courses hoping to attain an
\1.D. degree. When, however, I failed to get admitted into medical
school in Boston and since my financial condition precluded a wider
earch, I availed myself of the opportunity that ‘Tufts Dental
ifforded and took up training with drill and chisel. I soon dis-
covered that the long hours on my feet and sweating over Bunsen
Durners in chemistry lab were good conditioning for my new line
of endeavor. In our junior year, while World War II was raging,
he U.S. Army and Navy took over the medical and dental schools,
but us in uniform, and Uncle Sam picked up the tuition tab. This
same just in time, as the bursar was getting nervous at the sight of
he mounting pile of promissory notes from me.

After graduation from dental school we were quickly transferred
o the long amalgam assembly lines in the various Army camps, and
sefore long, not being fast or efficient enough in the production line
ind, therefore I suppose quite expendable, 1 found myself on a slow
oat... to the Pacific Theatre. A pleasant rest in Hawaii was
ollowed by a trip to Saipan and later to Okinawa in the waning
Jays of the war. While on the latter island, we heard of the “new
»omb” being dropped on Japan which brought the peace. Soon we

[ 658 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

were on our way again. This time to South Korea. The place was
“out of this world.”

Late in 1946 I was returned to the States and to civilian life again.
I changed my name from Iserovitz to Isner, as the former was too
amuch of a tongue twister. In 1948 I married a girl from Worcester
and moved there to set up home and a dental office. In 1956 I gave
up private practice and assumed duties of dentist under civil service
at the Worcester State Hospital. What I lost in prestige and free
enterprise, I made up in regular hours, certain fringe benefits and
some leisure time to read or see the country.

Out of my marriage came two fine boys, the elder one, now
fourteen and a half, is a Talmud scholar at a Rabbinical academy,
the younger one, thirteen, has just entered junior high.

And so, as I look back over the years, I marvel at the great oppor-
tunity I had at Harvard and my good fortune of being brought to
this great land by my father from the old country.

GEORGE ROBERT JACOBS

 

HOME ApprEss: 5008 Elsmere Pl., Bethesda, Md. 20014.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Office of International Resources, Dept. of State, Washington,
DC,

PREPARED AT: Francis W. Parker School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B., Clim laude, 1940.

MarriED: Carolyn Berry, Oct. 1, 1945. CHILDREN: Michacl Berry, Aug. 6, 1948;
Deborah, Feb, 22, 1950.

occupation: American foreign service officer; deputy director, Office of In-
ternational Resources, Bureau of Economic Affairs, Department of State.

MEMBER OF: American Economic Association; Royal Economic Society; Re-
form Club.

I HAVE been in government service since leaving college and,

[ 659 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

looking back, I've not been seriously tempted to leave it. Since the
end of World War II I've been concerned with foreign policy and
foreign relations, first as a civil service emplovee of the Department
of State and, since 1956, as a foreign service officer. My employ-
ment in the Department followed on wartime service in the Office
of Strategic Services and was primarily related to German affairs.
In 1956 I went to the American Embassy in Bangkok for two years
and in early 1959 to the Embassy in London for four and one-half.
In 1963 I ‘enjoyed ten months at the State Department’s Senior
Seminar in Foreign Policy, a course in both foreign and domestic
developments and problems, which includes some very valuable
opportunities to become reacquainted with the United States. Since
June of 1964 I have been serving as deputy director of the Office of
International Resources in the State Department, concerned with
international aspects of our policies regarding commodities and
raw materials,

Mv family and I have enjoyed living abroad and are now enjoying
a chance to live at home. Occasionally we become aware of some
of the disadvantages of our relatively uncertain life, but its rewards
to me, and I think to my family, continue to outweigh them. My
own conviction that no other work would interest and engross me
so much probably influences my satisfaction with it and, of course,
frequent and uninformed criticism probably helps to maintain for-
eign service morale.

Writing in late October, 1964, one might expect to record some-
thing less than complete satisfaction and optimism regarding the
quality and prospects of American life. Nevertheless I retain excit-
ing memories of the intelligence and creativity I encountered in my
travels around the United States last year and a strong sense that
many of our most difficult and currently intractable problerns will
be successfully surmounted in the coming years. Moreover, I think
it quite possible that the effort required to deal with these problems,
broadly to create a single set of opportunities and goals for all our
citizens, may itself give new purpose to our socicty,

[ 660 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STEPHEN WILLIAM JACOBS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 303 Highgate Rd., Ithaca, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: College of Architecture, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Woodmere Academy, Woodmere, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940; B.ARCH.,
1947; M.F.A. (Princeton Univ.), 1952.

MARRIED: Helen Ogden Olcott, Jan. 19, 1952. CHILDREN: Katharine Lawrence,
Sept. 24, 1955; David Keller, March 4, 1957.

occuPaATIoN: Associate professor of architecture, Cornell University.

OFFICES HELD: President, Pacific Section, 1957-59, Central New York Section,
1961-63, Society of Architectural Historians.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects; Archaeological Institute of
America; American Association of University Professors; Association of
Collegiate Schools of Architecture; College Art Association; Society of
Architectural Historians, Great Britain.

PusLicaTions: “Architecture in California,” L’Architecture d Aujourd but, Oc-
tober, 1956; “Stable Values in a Changing World: Historic Preservation
in City Planning and Urban Renewal,” Journal of Architectural Educa-
tion, Spring, 1960, City Design Through Conservation, with Barclay G.
Jones, 1960; “California Contemporaries of Frank Lloyd Wright,” Szaudies
in Western Art: Acts of the Twentieth International Congress of the

History of Art, Vol. LV, 1963.

AFTER one year at the Graduate School of Design and a summer
as architectural supervisor on a large construction project I enlisted
in the U.S. Army Air Force as an aviation cadet. After emerging
as a navigator I spent six months as instructor in the navigation
school at San Marcos, Texas. A year and a half with a Troop Car-
rier Squadron in the European Theatre provided a front row seat
for a series of invasions, supply drops, and evacuation of wounded.
Returning to Cambridge to complete the professional curriculum
in architecture, I did some volunteer teaching of architectural his-
tory. Next came a year as assistant professor of architecture at

[ 661 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Miami University (Oxford, Ohio) and work for local architecrural
firms there and in Cincinnati. When I left Massachusetts I startled
my English friends by writing that I was going from Cambridge to
Oxford. Next came a four-vear stint at Princeton as instructor and
student of art and archacology, Three summers were devoted to
leading groups abroad for the E xperiment in International Living,
twice to France and once to Sweden. Before leaving tigertown to
teach at Middlebury College, Middlebury, Vermont, I acquired
a charming wife who joined me in yet another Experiment trip —
this ume to Denmark.
Our two vears at Middlebury sandwiched a year in Paris where
I was a Fulbright Research Scholar. We lived in the Place de
l'Estrapade (a medieval torture instrument) behind the Pantheon
and enjoved the local color when not giving speeches in the prov-
inces or Spain. After a final year at Middlebury (as acting chairman
of the Art Department), we took off for glorious California, where
I was an assistant professor in the College of Architecture (renamed
the College of Environmental Design during our stay) for five years.
There we acquired our two children, and the feeling that the
Berkeley campus of the University of California was a wonderful
place, but hardly part of the Wild West. To find less megalopolitan
conditions we backtracked to Ithaca, which we like best of all the
nifty places we have lived. I am responsible for the program in the
History of Architecture of the College of Architecture at Cornell.
Three of the past four summers have been spent at Sardis, in Tur-
kev, where I have been senior architect of the Cornell- Harvard
Archaeological Exploration of the ancient capital of Lydia (and
of King Croesus, who invented money). Professor George M. A.
Hanfmann, the director, has made the EF xpedition a rewarding and
fruitful experience for all concerned. Whenever projects and ex-
peditions permit, bits of the summer are spent at West Southport in
the Boothbay Harbor region of Maine. There we sit on a point
gazing at one of the more appealing views, swim, or go boating
(or undertake a bit of gardening when essential).

As a sideline, ] have become an “urban conservationist” con-
cerned for the appropriate use of our cities’ aesthetic and cultural
resources in the way of scenery, architecture, institutions, works
of art, etc., where large-scale changes are being made in urban areas.

I think I need your help.

For me the rolling stone technique has paid off. Settling in for

fairly lengthy stays at some of the more respectable and attractive

[ 662 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

educational institutions dotted about the country has enabled me to
continue — but by no means complete— my Harvard education.
It has been a busy, interesting, and rewarding quarter-century.

CHARLES FREDERICK JAEGER

   

HOME ADDRESS: 2536 Inglewood Rd., S.W., Roanoke, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jaeger Bottling Co., 1101 Shenandoah Ave., N.W., Roanoke, Va.

PREPARED AT: Columbus Academy, Columbus, Ohio,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; Graduate (Babson Institute),

. 1941.

MARRIED: Thelma Wallace, Dec. 22, 1945. CHILDREN: Charles Frederick, Jr.,

Nov. 5, 1946; Robert Wallace, Sept. 3, 1948; Susan, Sept. 28, 1951; Richard
Williamson, May 28, 1961.
OCCUPATION: President, Jaeger Bottling Company, bottlers of Canada Dry and

Irvade.

OFFICES HELD: First lieutenant, Ohio National Guard, 1948-51 (medical dis-
charge); captain, major and lieutenant colonel, Ohio Defense Corps, 1952-
61; member, Boy Scout Troop Committee, and usher, First Presbyterian

Church, Roanoke.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Accountants, since 1959; American Bot-
tlers of Carbonated Beverages, since 1962; Virginia Manufacturers of
Carbonated Beverages, since 1962. ,

AFTER graduation from Harvard, attended Babson Institute for
one year, graduating with distinction. Worked for General Electric
in Lynn from July, 1941, through May, 1942, before being drafted
by the Air Force. After six months as a private at Sebring, Florida,
in the Quartermaster Corps attached to the Air Force, applied for
OCS in the Quartermaster Corps. Graduated from Camp Lee, as a
second lieutenant in April, 1943, and was assigned to Drew Field,
Tampa, Florida, where I stayed for the rest of the war in various
QM duties, Met my future wife at Drew.

[ 663 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Upon discharge in early "46, stayed in Florida for several years,

Finally becoming convinced it was easier to freeze than to starve,

returned to Ohio where [ took some accounting courses at Ohio
State and started to carn a living as a cost accountant, ending up in

Newark, Ohio, as a plant accountant.

In February, 1961, took over the operation of a bottling company
in Roanoke, Virginia, where [am at present. I find running one’s
own business requires most of my time, the few Icisure hours avail-
able are spent with my family, mostly as an arbitrator or judge of
family arguments. During the fall try to see as many football games
as possible, either in person or on TV.

Was somewhat disappointed by the election as I am on the con-
servative side.

WALTER EDWARD JENKINS, JR.

    

HOME ApbRESS: 14 Kenthury Way, Bethesda, Md.; 142 Kennedy Ave., San An-
tonio, Texas.
OFFICE ADpRESS: Dept. of State, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT; Weston High School, Weston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937, 1939-1941. DEGREES: 8.B., 1940(41); A.M., 1947.

MarRieD: Laura Dearing Van Huysen, Feb. 23, 1942. CHILDREN: Sara Elizabeth,
Oct. 25, 1943; James Bishop, May 21, 1953.
HARVARD BROTHER: James Benjamin Jenkins, ’43 (deceased).

occupation; Forcign Service officer, Officer in Charge of Polish Affairs.

IN perusing earlicr Class Reports I find that immediately after the
war I was youthfully hopeful about the future of our country,
having expressed considerably more optimism about America than
about other countries of my wartime experience. This was a little
unfair; for China, which was the only country I had come to know

[ 664 |

eo a oan RETR ORR ENON EHS

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

intimately, had already suffered grievously from foreign and civil
war. Nonetheless, my sanguine view remains unchanged, in spite of
a few anxious moments during the early phases of our 1964 elections.
Marriage, a family, and life in the Foreign Service have done little
to shake this attitude, but I must confess they have lent perspective to
my views of America and foreign lands. Since embarking on the
nomad’s life, we have as a family worked, studied, and thrived in
divided Germany, insular China, Communized Poland, and in Re-
publican and Democratic America. Twice, in 1946 and 1957, we
were fortunate in being able to return to Harvard for study.

Our first two years in the Department with the China Desk
(1948-50) were stirring but not happy ones in all respects, for China
as we had known it was passing and with it my hopes of serving in
China as a language officer. However, the years we spent im-
mediately thereafter in a small city of southern Germany, where I was
assigned as a Kreis Officer of the U.S. High Commission, provided a
new vista and a good base for service to come. Almost the only
Americans in a small German community, we worked with citizen
action groups, forum committees, film and library programs. As
my worldly German language instructor in Washington had put it
earlier, “He thinks he is going to make good democrats out of the
Germans.” These were also the bucolic days of rippling trout
streams, fields of Hungarian partridge, and wild boar in n the thickets
of dark forests.

In 1953 we returned to China, not exactly to the Middle Kingdom
I had known but to the beautiful Island of Formosa, which was just
beginning to find a new prosperity and independent existence. Here
we met old friends who had lived in mainland China, a land we
could only catch a glimpse of occasionally from the ramparts of an
off-shore island. Berlin (1955-57) was a different sort of island, and
life there produced a sense of identity with the stolid, fearless Ber-
liners. Our little Consulate in Poznan, Poland (1961-63), was the
only American Foreign Service post of its kind in Eastern Europe
and the only foreign establishment in Western Poland until 1961.
In that year a Soviet Consulate was opened there in order, the
Soviet Consul told me, “That you not be lonely. ” But we fele few
moments of loneliness, for the Poles generally are very fond of
Americans. During the week which followed the death of President
Kennedy, over 6000 Poles visited the Consulate to conv ey their

condolences.
A foreign affairs specialist tends to become absorbed in his field,

[ 665 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

particularly if he occupies a “country desk” in an office of “State”
overlooking the Potomac. He is proud, for example, of the readi-
ness with which he can toss off reasons for Khrushchev’s recent
political demise — his bungling of relations with China, mal-alloca-
tion of resources and the trend toward polycentrism in the Com-
munist world. However, as the years roll by and we come across old
friends from Poland, Germany, and China, I have come to discern
their greater interest in the health, well-being, and whereabouts of
Laura, Sally, and Jimmy than in my sure-fire “angles” on foreign
affairs. I have come to appreciate with some pride the fact that wife,
daughter, and son are very positive elements in our representation
abroad and, indeed, are my greatest assets in the Service. Inevitably
they will go on making friends and ‘ ‘building bridges.” Be that as

it may, I shall remain alert at my desk ready to offer advice on the
world’s myriad * ‘trouble spots.”

++ MALCOLM EDWARD JENNA

 

BorN: Dec. 8, 1918, Fitchburg, Mass. parents: Edward M. Jenna, Irene Sullivan.
prepared aT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1940.

DIED: June 23, 1944.

AFTER graduation Jenna entered the service and went on active
duty with the 26th Division. He rose to the rank of first lieutenant,

Field Artillery and went to Australia with the New England troops
that were the forerunner of the Americal Division.

[ 666 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ADDISON LLEWELLYN JENNINGS

 

HOME ApprEss: Library Place, Norton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 116 High St., Taunton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Mount Kisco High School, Mount Kisco, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940, M.B.A., 1942.

MARRIED: Bojan C. Hamlin, June 12, 1942. CHILDREN: Hamlin Manson, Aug. 4,
1946; Nora Lyn, Nov. 13, 1948; Constance Tuthill, Dec. 31, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Manson van Buren Jennings, °38.

occuPaTION: Certified public accountant — own business.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Norton School Committee, three years; president,
Norton Public Library, six years, Taunton Chamber of Commerce, two

years; etc.
MEMBER oF: American and Massachusetts C.P.A. Societies; Taunton Rotary

Club; Norton Lions Club; etc.
puBLICATIONS: A couple of articles in a professional journal.

AFTER some contemplation I have come to the inescapable con-
clusion that at this very moment I have reached the pinnacle of my
career. For as I look back I see far on the distant horizon the Fair
Harvard of my undergraduate years; but when I look ahead all I
can see is down. Here I am clearly at the summit and so much for
Phil B.

To reminisce a bit, I suppose that in June of 1940 most of us had
some great and vital goal. For some this was a clarion call; for others
perhaps the call was less loud and clear. For me my gaze had turned
during my senior year from the astronomical heavens to the green
earth across the River. I was able to finish the two years at the
Business School, but just in time to tuck away my freshly-earned
M.B.A. and sally forth with the more immediately i muportant ensign,
U.S.N.R. There ensued a series of land-based duties here and in the
South Pacific. Finally, when the war was over, it was expedient to

[ 667 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

polish up the old ALB.A., and I settled with a Wall Street account-
ing firm and a CPA,

Meanwhile a Mrs. had been added to the Mr. This was back be-
fore the Mr. had become a Sir. The Mrs. was (and God knows still
is) a bright and energetic girl from Bryn Mawr who shortly became
an A.M. (Radcliffe). Then while I was in the Pacific she had taught
chemistry at Wheaton College, which some of you may recall is in
Norton, Massachusetts, Finally, at war's end, she joined me in New
York and the Mrs. and the Mr., and the A.M. and the M.B.A.
became Ma and Pa: once (a boy), twice (a girl).

And so with a wonderful family and a promising career the
clarion call again weakened. The chords of New York canyons
seemed dissonant and those of the great suburbia disconcerting.
More appealing tunes we thought might come from a less populous
community, perhaps where she could teach and I could start my own
business. The problem was resolved in 1950 when we moved here
to Norton, she to resume teaching at Wheaton College and I to
begin a CPA practice in nearby Taunton.

It is now fourteen years since that move. She has acquired her
Ph.D. from Radcliffe, thriced (a girl), and now conducts a variety
of research programs in addition to teaching and housewifing. My
business is interesting primarily from the variety of experiences it
affords. Basically, the practice consists of consulting on accounting
and tax matters and auditing financial statements of businesses.
This in turn frequently leads to positions of confidence and trust and
a resulting relationship with clients somewhat similar in a business
way to that which a physician may have with his patients in mat-
ters of physical health. |

We live in an old (1830) New England farmhouse with an older
(1711) historic house on the grounds. With these and a summer
cottage on Buzzards Bay, we are the proud owners of thirteen work-
ing fireplaces (my wife’s a nut on this score). So our main hobby
is obviously lighting fires. Otherwise, she swims and I sail.

[ 668

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

C. BEDFORD JOHNSON

 

HOME aApprEss: McLain Street, R.F.D. 1, Mount Kisco, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Shearman & Sterling, 399 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Amarillo High School, Amarillo, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., #agna cum laude, 1940; LLB.

1943 (47).
MarRiED: Sally A. Barber, Jan. 5, 1946. CHILDREN: Douglas Bedford, Feb. 10,

1950; Scott William, April 3, 1952; Blair Martin, March 31, 1956.
occuPATION: Lawyer; partner in firm, Shearman & Sterling.
MEMBER OF: American, New York State and New York County Bar Asso-
ciations; Association of the Bar of the City of New York; American
Judicature Society; Harvard Club of New York; Fifth Avenue Club;

Downtown Association,

AFTER two years at the Law School, Pearl Harbor’s aftermath
led me into Navy training, solidly aground in the Colorado Rockies,
learning Japanese. Then into the Marine Corps for a mid-Pacific
tour, highlighted by the beach parties at Kwajalein, Saipan, Tinian
and Iwo Jima. More fondly remembered are days and beaches in
between, on detached duty in Hawaii.

Returning after the war, no time was lost in marrying my wil-
lowy, blue-eyed blonde and hastening back to Cambridge to finish
law school. We discovered that one room with hot plate, she
selling books at the Coop and I glowering at law notes, can prove
to be a fine setting for a first year of marriage. The decision as to
where to live and work after law school didn’t come easily, and was
arrived at only after visits to a number of cities. Once made, the
choice of New York has always seemed right.

Manhattan in the early years was full of excitement: commencing
law practice with a large firm, discovering the city by day, “first-
nighting” (high in the balcony) by night, and starting a family.

[ 669 ]

ee nO NRE ARON AEN SHEN ia RAIN haen ie pnaae emacs asnatittenatacamnneei aeaaties os : ja ° nam

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

In time, the lure of country living took us well outside the city,
at a formidable commuting distance it’s true, but the half-way
measures have never seemed satisfactory.

We have three sons, who will be at ages fifteen, thirteen and
nine by the time this appears, blessed with health, mental and ath-
letic ability, eagerness, and good spirits. Their enthusiasm for
skiing, and that of their parents, has led to acquiring a meadow and
farmhouse in the Vermont mountains.

My trade is that of “Wall Street lawyer,” as a member of the
firm of Shearman & Sterling, involved in a variety of corporate,
financial and banking matters, with much of my attention directed to
affairs of First National City Bank. Sometimes there is travel, occa-
sionally there is a government assignment, but chiefly the days are

interesting and full because of the diversity, challenge, and inherent
fascination which I find in practising law.

Twenty-five years have sped by at an incredible rate. The Class
of 1940 already has an uncommon share of special circumstances
and remarkable men. Still, I suspect that most of us find ourselves

curious mainly as to what yet lies ahead. The Event is here; but,
having arrived, it changes once again, as it did twenty-five years
ago, froma goal into a commencement.

ERIC WARNER JOHNSON

,
4

wt.

RENE prea
ae
So .
i ~~.

AY aan “.
a _ * + 2
, ~~ } :
Oa HS Ti tore aps 3a

 

HOME appress: 6110 Ardleigh St., Philadelphia, Pa. 19138.

orrice appress: Germantown Friends School, Philadelphia, Pa. 19144.

prepare at: Germantown Friends School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. Magna cum laude, 1940; A.M. 1941-
makgies: Gay Gilpin, Nov, 26, 1949. CHILDREN: Rebecca Warner, Dee. 24, 1951)

Jeffrey Gilpin, July 14, 1953, Emily Cooper, July 10, 1957; Nathaniel Old-
ing, June 21, 1964 (died June 30, 1964).

[ 670 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Walter James Johnson, Jr., 44.
OCCUPATION: Vice-principal, Germantown Friends School; director of develop-

ment and teacher of English.

OFFICES HELD: Headmaster, Friends Central School, Philadelphia, 1948-52;
Quaker International Affairs Representative, American Friends Service
Committee, Paris, France, 1952-54; director, Voluntary International Serv-
ice Assignment (VISA) Program, American Friends Service Committee,
Philadelphia, 1961-62; member, board of directors, American Friends
Service Committee, National Council of Teachers of English, Germantown
Settlement (Philadelphia), Friends Free Library of Germantown.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Improve Your Own Spelling, McGraw-Hill, How To Live
Through Junior High School, Love and Sex in Plain Language, Lippin-
cott; Language For Daily Use, Four Famous Adventures, Harcourt, Brace
and World; articles for Parents’ Magazine.

I HAVE reached the place where I acknowledge to myself that
Pll never be President. Therefore, I am happy enough with the
work I do, only there’s too much of it, and not enough time for
loafing, even though my wife says that if I had time for loafing, I
wouldn’t loaf but find some other way of complicating life.

After Harvard, 1940, I earned my A.M. in Teaching at the
Graduate School of Education, and was a freshman proctor in
Thayer. After this I got my first job as teacher of English and
history at John Burroughs School in St. Louis. I was a C.O., and
when the draft got close to me, I volunteered for the American
Friends Service Committee and spent two and a half years overseas
with the Quakers (of which I am one), working with refugees in
Portugal, Morocco, Algeria (where I was for a few months secretary
of the Interallied Commission for Political Prisoners and Refugees in
French North Africa), Egypt and India. In India I became aware
of something that Professor Merriman never taught me: that most
of the people in the world live in Asia, of which Europe is an ap-
pendage.

After the war, and a couple of years of administering the Far
Eastern work of the American Friends Service Committee, I re-
turned to teaching at Germantown Friends School, sixth grade.
From this happy existence I was snatched to become headmaster of
Friends Central School, Philadelphia, which job I did for four years.
But not a year and a half had passed before I knew that headmaster-
ing was not for me, and I resigned, eventually to go back to the
happier life of teaching and writing. I vowed never again to be-
come head of an institution.

The only enjoyable thing that happened to me during my head-

[ 671 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

mastering stint was meeting and marrying Gay Gilpin, and I now
took her and our daughter to Paris, where we spent two delightful
vears W ith the American Friends Service Committee again, this time
as Quaker International Affairs Representative. Using the Quaker
Center as base — a base which provided modest comfort, good food,
friendly, natural premises, and the confidence of all sorts of people
—TI strove to bring together diplomats, opinion leaders, North
African nationalists, politicians, leftists, rightists for purposes of in-
creasing their understanding of each other, It worked well and con-
vinced me anew that there is a place in this conflict-ridden world
for a small, religious, pacifist group who base their activities on un-
discourageable goodwill, but make it their business, too, to be well
informed. Love is fine, but love plus a lot of information is better
(gentle as doves, wise as serpents).

In 1954, one child more numerous (our son Jeffrey having been
born in Paris on Bastille Day), we returned to Philadelphia, where
I became head of the junior high schoo] at Germantown Friends
School, where I still work today, This was an administrative job I
liked, involving as it did an almost full teaching load and working
directly with students and parents, During this period I began to
do a lot of writing of books and articles, the best known of which
is How To Live Through Junior High School, which at the mo-
ment has gone into its fifth printing.

A few years ago I built myself something which every man should
have: a study isolated in the woods, 220 feet from the house, and
forbidden territory to all. Here I write, think and even nap.

The year 1961-62, I spent away from school, this time as director
of the Quaker VISA (Voluntary International Service Assignments)
Program, an AFSC small Peace Corps-type of operation. This
assignment took me to Haiti and Guatemala, and it convinced me
that it is a good thing, if you can work it, to take off one in every
five years or so, to do something different in a different place.
Perhaps it will be Japan next. When I returned to school, I became

vice-principal and director of development (money raiser), but my
principal delight remains teaching English to seventh-graders.

Meanwhile, 1 have got involved in textbook authoring. It started
when I made up a new system for teaching spelling, which worked
quite well with my students at Germantown Friends, so my wife
and I decided to have it printed as a book, and we marketed it from

a small extra room in our house, called the Spelling Room. After a

while it became too large an operation for this, and we sold the book

[ 672 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

to McGraw-Hill, who market it still. This led to a lot of work for
Harcourt, Brace and World, on a series called Language For Daily
Use, a language arts (yes, that’s the word they use now for every-
thing that happens in the English classroom, except literature) series.
I’m hoping that this textbook series (done with three other authors)
will make it possible to pay my kids’ way through college.

By now our family numbers five, three children, and we live in a
house we built a few years ago, half an hour’s walk from school.
Thus, we manage to stay out of the center of the city most of the
time, but are very much involved in the urban problems of crowded
Germantown. However, we live in a place called Awbury Park,
our property verging on parkland which was left to public use a
number of years ago by a wise Quaker family who couldn’t afford
the taxes any more, but who didn’t need the money they could have
had from selling it. So they gave it “for quiet recreation and nature
study.” It is surrounded by high stone walls, filled with a good many
Quakers (now infiltrated, happily, by an interracial group includ-
ing several brands of Christian and at least one brand of Jew), and
known locally as “the Quaker Kremlin.” My study in the woods is
thus referred to as the “concentration cabin.”

As for Harvard, I’m glad I went there, and I applaud its dedica-
tion to the independent search for truth, regardless of consequences.

+ FLETCHER HARRIS JOHNSON

BORN: Oct. 6, 1914, Middleport, N.Y. parents: Elbert Johnson, Maude Brooks.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1938-1939.
piED: Killed in action, March 23, 1944, in Germany.

AFTER a year with our Class, Johnson was employed in the ad-
vertising department of the Remington Rand Company in Buffalo.
In June, 1942, he enlisted as an aviation cadet, was later commis-
sioned as a second lieutenant and after finishing B-17 training left
this country for a base in England, as a member of the Eighth Air
Force, 41oth Squadron, 94th Group. He was promoted to first
lieutenant in March, 1943. He was killed in action on his 16th
combat mission. Before his death he had been awarded the Air
Medal with two oak-leaf clusters. His unit received a Presidential
Citation. He was survived by his parents.

[ 673 ]

moe conte ar .

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

FRANCIS STEPHEN JOHNSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 50 Sutton Pl, S., New York 22, N.Y.

OFFICE appRESS: GTA Sales Corp., 845 Third Ave., New York 22, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: MMacJannet School, Paris, France.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936~1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarrieD: Olga Zuloago, Oct. 23, 1943 (divorced 1956); Edith Lawless, Nov. 19,
1960. CHILDREN: Anne Catherine, March 27, 1945; Frances Claire, Jan. 9,
1947.

occupation: International trade; president, GTA Sales Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant export manager, Mead Johnson & Company, 1948-54;
manager, Venezuelan subsidiary, P. A. Dana, Inc., 1954-56; assistant to
president, Vision, Inc., 1956-58; advertising manager, Cyanamid Interna-
tional, 1958-60, executive vice-president, American Steel Export Company,
1960-62; president, GTA Sales Corporation. —

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

WITH my European schooling and upbringing, it is not too sur-
prising that I have been involved in international affairs, in one way
or another, since graduating. Before the war I became interested in
Latin America, and worked for the Coordinator of Inter-American
Affairs as an economic specialist in South America; on Pearl
Harbor Day I was deep in the jungle on the Bolivian-Brazilian
border, and didn’t learn of the attack until several days later. Then
came five years in the Army, ending up as assistant military attaché
in Prague, just before the Communist take-over of Czechoslovakia.

Since then I have been active in international trade, selling a wide
variety of goods in all parts of the world: pharmaceutical products,
radios, typewriters, air-conditioning equipment, automotive parts,
food products, wines and liquors, diamonds, home appliances, etc.
I have traveled extensively in all corners, and have worked abroad
and in the United States, either selling American products in over-
seas markets, or distributing foreign products in the United States.

[ 674 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The more I travel, the more convinced I become that we, as
Americans, should think of our own country first, and be less con-
cerned (if at all) with foreign opinion. We should concentrate all
our efforts upon keeping our nation strong and vital, economically
as well as militarily. We cannot afford to let our economic life-
blood drain away through continued national budget deficits plus
balance-of-payment deficits. We cannot continue to spend more
than we earn, both domestically and internationally, without caus-
ing increased inflation and weakening the dollar, backbone of world
commerce and finance.

What we should remember, and all too often forget, is that only
strength counts and is admired in this world; it has always been that
way, and will probably never change. As a nation we should con-
sider our own interests first, and develop a long-range master plan
that will vigorously support these interests. The main points of the
master plan should be made known to all, enemies, friends and our
own people, so that all will know where we stand. Most important
of all, we should adhere to these guidelines to the extent possible, and
avoid the vacillations, vacuums and lack of direction that have
characterized our governmental actions in the last twenty years.
Our words should be firmly backed up by our actions, or else we

should keep quiet. T.R.’s motto still applies today. |

We should also constantly be aware that our principal enemy,
world Communism, still has as its primary object the conquest and
rule of our globe and all of its peoples. The only basic difference
between the Russians and the Chinese, as of now, is in the manner
of accomplishing this goal, but not in the goal itself. So we should
remain on our guard, and not be taken in by temporary “thaws” in
our relations with Russia. Any economic or agricultural aid that
the West extends to Communist countries will only expedite their
military and economic build-up, and permit them to take over ad-
ditional so-called “uncommitted” nations, until they are ready to
challenge us directly.

We must remain strong, for we cannot count upon other nations
to help us in an emergency. In the long run, I believe that “what is
good for the U.S. is good for the world,” to paraphrase Engine
Charlie Wilson.

[ 675 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

* WHEDON JOHNSON

 
   

BORN: Oct. 15, 1916, Syracuse, N.Y. PARENTS: Sidney Breed Johnson, Florence
Whedon.

PREPARED AT: Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1940; M.D. (Johns Hop-
kins Univ.), 1943.

mMarrieD: Mary Townley Cobb, June 20, 1940, Cambridge, Mass. CHILDREN:
David Whedon, July 28, 1942; Peter Cobb, April 30, 1944; Mary Whedon,
Dec. 6, 1945; Philip Ross, Nov. 21, 1947.

pieD: Dec. 19, 1953, Sarasota, Fla.

AFTER medical school Johnson spent a year as house officer at
Johns Hopkins Hospital and then became resident surgeon at the
Palmerton Hospital in Palmerton, Pennsylvania. He was on in-
active duty as a first lieutenant in the Army Medical Corps until
March, 1946. At the time of his death he was practising medicine
in Sarasota, Florida, and had previously practised in Baltimore. He
was survived by his wife and children.

[ 676 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BOYD NELSON JONES, JR.

   

HOME ADDRESS: 42 West Rd., New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boyd N. Jones & Associates, 9 E. Maple St., New Canaan, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Nancy Gordon Brown, Dec. 25, 1941. CHILDREN: Linda Boyd, March
14, 1943; Gordon Webster, March 11, 1945; Boyd Alexander, Oct. 20, 1946.

occupaTion: Realtor.

OFFICES HELD: Director, New Canaan Board of Realtors, Connecticut Associa-
tion of Real Estate Boards; president, Daycroft School, Inc., Greenwich,
Conn.; treasurer, Owatonna Camp for Boys, Harrison, Maine.

MEMBER OF: New Canaan Field Club; Harvard Club of Fairfield County; New

Canaan Chamber of Commerce.

UPON graduation in 1940, I went to work for a magnesium and
aluminum foundry and manufacturer in Rockford, Illinois. We
were involved almost entirely with aircraft subcontracts and as
production manager and later factory manager I continued in this
business until 1946.

In 1947 I opened an office in Milwaukee, Wisconsin, as a manu-
facturers’ agent representing various Illinois and Ohio manufac-
turers in Wisconsin and Minnesota. My wife Nancy, three chil-
dren and myself moved to Oconomowoc, Wisconsin, where we
lived on a lake and skated and swam to our hearts’ content. The
peace and joy of this was too much for us, so we formed a revolu-
tionary food packaging company adapting a new invention of one
of my principals. This company, which bore the name of La Belle
Foods, Inc., very nicely used up the profits of my manufacturers’
agency. We had more mechanical breakdowns than any manufac-
turer since the dawn of the industrial revolution, but we did ship
lots of flexible plastic ten-cent packages of stuffed olives, mara-

[ 677 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

schino cherries and pickles all over the country. They were ter-
rific for hinch boxes and picnics but, unfortunately, sometimes
thev leaked!!!

A move to Connecticut became necessary in 1952 and somehow,
as a by-product of buying an old house in New Canaan with too
much acreage, I found myself in the real estate business, I’m still in
it and am havi ing a ball! We built several good reproductions of
early Connecticut River Valley houses but are principally con-
cerned with selling beautiful residential property in a community
that has been publicly acclaimed as “Next to Heaven” (musical
show produced by Paul Killiam, 737). We have blonde, female
realtors, driving white convertibles, waiting to serve you, plus the
seventh largest. Harvard Club in the world. As membership chair-
man, I urge you to get transferred to New York and hurry out to
swell the ranks.

Our three children are in colleges other than Harvard and in
our lonely old age we are living in a house we built in 1961 in a
pine grove on our own pond using a few old beams and planks for
flavor. In our spare time, sailing and skiing have been the most
popular family diversions plus working for a private school in
Greenwich, our church and a non-profit boys’ camp in Maine.

CRANSTON EDWARD JONES

    
 

ep eS NR ER

 

HOME appress: 8 E. 96th St., New York 28, NLY.

OFFICE appress: Time Magazine, Time & Life Bldg., New York 20, N.Y.
prepared AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: $.B., 1940,

MarRIED: Jean Campbell, Dec. 24, 1949. CHILDREN: Abigail Ainsworth, March
16, 1952; Baird Campbell, Feb. 4, 1955.

[ 678 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OccUPATION: Senior editor, Time Magazine.

OFFICES HELD: USNR, commanding officer, USS Crouter (DE-11), 1941-45;
correspondent for Time Magazine in San Francisco, London, Paris, Rio de
Janeiro (bureau chief), 1945-54; contributing, associate and senior editor,
Time Magazine, 1954-64, trustee, The Bear Run Foundation; secretary,
Phillips Academy, Class of 1936.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Century Association; Municipal Art
Society of New York; associate member of The Museum of Modern Art,
Metropolitan Museum, Friend of the Addison Art Gallery of American
Art, Friend of the Fogg Museum.

PUBLICATIONS: Form Givers at Mid-Century (catalogue and exhibition); Archi-
tecture Today @& Tomorrow, McGraw-Hill, Homes of the American
Presidents, McGraw-Hill; Walking Tours of New York, editor; Marcel
Breuer 1921-1962, Praeger-Hatje; articles on art and architecture in
Prouves, Fortune, Life, Sports Illustrated, Horizon.

I MUST confess at the outset that the Twenty-fifth Reunion of the
Class of 1940, while an event of note and an occasion to anticipate
pleasurably, does not strike me as a momentous milestone. Very
possibly I would enjoy writing about it afterwards and in perspec-
tive, but at the moment the Class call to write about my “social,
political and religious convictions” has fallen upon deaf ears. Still
and all, some accounting is required, and it strikes me that my life
now, as compared with then, is more notable for its continuities
than its contrasts — always excepting the fact that I have exchanged
the semi-monastic life of Eliot House for the far more pleasant and
enjoyable role of husband and father in a Manhattan apartment.

So, for the various writing courses and editorial work on the
Harvard Monthly, substitute Time magazine; for my major in
American history and lit, substitute reporting which has taken me to
San Francisco, London, Paris, Rio de Janeiro, with side assignments
stretching from Norway to Morocco; for fencing and an occasional
trip to the ski country, substitute tennis and squash, with an occa-
sional trip to the ski country. I still enjoy club life, touch football
in moderate doses, surfing, browsing in bookstores, art gallery open-
ings.

I never thought of any Harvard course as terminal, but I have been
impressed by the shift upward in intensity when the source material
changes from books to people, from events whose consequences are
known to those still in full evolution. The second I obviously find
far more zestful, rewarding, and nerve-wracking. An increased in-
tensity, too, in the actual here and now of reporting, especially from
abroad. The challenge of coping not only with French news but
French life while stationed in Paris, or with Brazilian past and

[ 679 ]

2 ee amano ter
a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

present in Portuguese while in Rio, was far more galvanizing than
the rather distant dilettantism of class work. And, of course, the
inevitable conclusion when faced with an unknown situation that _
“we” knew nothing about Arabic culture (while in Morocco,
Algeria, and Tunis), nothing about Portuguese settlements in the
New World (while in Brazil), nothing about physics (when re-
porting on the meson from Berkeley, California).

Perhaps the major discovery was that I for one was vastly too
word-oriented and, in fact, a near visual illiterate. I doubt that this
conclusion is cosmic, but for me the discovery of architecture was
a most happy countercorrective. Having feasted my eyes abroad,
I returned home to discover a whole new world abuilding. The
results found their way into print in a series of cover stories for
Time (which happily won four awards for excellence from the
American Institute of Architects), an architectural exhibition, Form
Givers at Mid-Century, which toured fourteen of the country’s
leading museums, and three books on architecture. Currently, my
tasks involve more editing than writing, with a broadening of
horizons I find most satisfactory. But of that, more anon in 1990.

DAVID GRIFFITH JONES

 

HOME apprEss: 1912 Dupont Ave., S., Minneapolis, Minn. 55403.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 301 Kenwood Pkwy., Minneapolis, Minn. 55402.

PREPARED AT: Blake School, Hopkins, Minn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: 8.B., 1940; M.p, (Western Reserve
Univ.), 1944.

Marrigp: Olivia Lamb Coan, Dec. 21, 1948 (divorced 1956); Nancy Nightin-
gale, Oct. 23, 1956 (divorced 1962), cHiLoREN: David Griffith, Jr., Dec. 31)
1949, Hilary Evan, Feb. 27, 1952; Herbert William, 3d, Aug. 29, 19573
Cynthia Lewis, April 23, 1959.

[ 680 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Herbert William Jones, Jr., °34, M.D., 37.

occuPATION: Physician, private practice; attending physician, Hennepin County
General Hospital, Minneapolis; medical consultant, North American Life
Insurance Company; member of staff, Northwestern, Abbott and St.
Barnabas Hospitals, Minneapolis.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Department of Internal Medicine, 1951-52, clinical
instructor, 1951-58, clinical assistant professor, since 1958, University of
Minnesota, chairman, Medical Section, Special Gifts Division, Hennepin
County Community Fund (now United Fund), 1956-59.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate); American
Medical Association, Minnesota and Hennepin County Medical Societies;
American, Minnesota and Minneapolis Societies of Internal Medicine; Nu
Sigma Nu Medical Fraternity; Hamann Society (W.R.U. Medical Honor
Society); The Campus (Univ. of Minnesota) Faculty Club; The 5:55 Club
(Minneapolis); Minikahda Club; Harvard Club of Minnesota.

puBLicaTions: Author, “Sam, You Cut The Ends Too Long,” Hamann Society
Annual Production, 1943; “Standardization of Asparagus Clearance Test,”
paper read at U.S.V.A. Troglodyte Review, 1950.

IT WAS with real concern and some annoyance on one fall day at
Cambridge in 1936 that I listened to Dean Gummere question the
certainty of my wish to become a physician. It is somewhat shat-
tering to realize how many years must pass before a reasonably
clear “doctor” Gestalt has emerged in my mind. The fabric of my
willful ambition was pretty thin at times, particularly on the death
of my father in July, 1940, and the realization that almost no other
medical school in the country required so few premedical courses
as Harvard. Academic 1940-41 (when I tried to surround the
seventeen “other” premedical courses required by the University
of Minnesota) and the war years (when the medical schools short-
ened the course, but not the curriculum—to two years, eight
months by removing vacations) and the internship (shortened to
nine months) did not provide much time to philosophize about
Dean Gummere’s wonderment. After this the Army seemed like
a vacation, and in retrospect was a very educational experience.
The Field Service School, the School of Military Neuropsychiatry,
the Research Service on head injury problems at Cushing General,
Framingham, the tour in Panama and the Galapagos Islands have
led to some sustained medical interests, some very good friends, and
a lot of material for children’s entertainment and salon (saloon?)
badinage.

After discharge from the Army, I had four years of specialty
training in internal medicine at the University of Minnesota, and
then a year as an instructor while taking the specialty board exam-

[ 681 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

inations. Since 1952, when I entered private practice, I have also
served as a clinical instructor and now clinical assistant professor
at the medical school and Minneapolis General Hospital (now Hen-
nepin County General Hospital). This has been rewarding, both
as a way to keep medically current and to get good football tickets.

And so now, after about twelve years of pedestrian practice of
the art known as internal medicine, I feel that I am ready to answer
Dean Gummere — if he would like to ask that rhetorical question
again, unhesitatingly, with circumlocution and perhaps a few rhe-
torical questions of my own (which always makes for good M.D.-
manship). The content of this high level rationalization could cer-
tainly be condensed to a few thousand pages. (The prolix approach
is always favored in medical literature because it discourages critical
review.)

After disposing of the negative reasons for entering medicine and
particularly internal medicine, perhaps a few examples from my
personal stockpile will reveal the soundness of my choice — and
also serve to finish off the biographical elements requested above
and not yet covered. By “negative” I refer to those obvious career
shapers such as: the certainty of misery and failure in commerce,
law, politics and the audio-visual creative and performing arts, and
enough exposure to eschew the “work” part of farming and the
Regular Army. The positive aspects are legion, some of them:
medicine, especially internal medicine, offers an unparalleled oppor-
tunity for the observation of one’s fellowman at very close range.
This can be said to be, variously: entertaining, discouraging, pleasant,
difficult, very difficult, impossible, happy, sad and rewarding. It is
not necessarily conducive to a tranquil domestic existence or:

Hippocrates, How Many Ways Do I Love Thee?

On the path to erudition
In the medical tradition .
Life is fraught with “chance” along the way.

The Holy Grail of Science
May get lost among the clients,
Dr. Kildare may not always save the day,

And the Chairman of the Board
Is not happy with his hoard,
For his coronaries keep his joys at bay.

{ 682 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

VIP’s of every sort,
Common types and Kings of Sport
Somatize their psyches every day.

Medicare and automation
Fill the cup of aggravation
Enriching M.D. life in every way.

Alphabetized “help” from D.C.
Does its best to make things easy,
Mostly thanks to I.R.S. and F.D.A.

Tho’ the bright young students’ quest
(Osler, Pasteur, all the best),
Life may slightly smudge from day to day.

There are other rich rewards
(After one has passed the Boards),
In doing best what one CAN do each day.

One final word of reassurance to those who feel that the medical
profession is about to be replaced by IBM may be found in the
quote attributed to the noted test pilot, Scott Crossfield:
“Where else would you get a nonlineal computer weighing
only 160 pounds having a million precision elements that can
be mass produced by unskilled labor?”

EDWARD POWIS JONES

 

HOME ADpRESS: 925 Park Ave., New York 28, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

[ 683 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

MarrieD: Anne Keating, May 25, 1946. cHitpreN: Elizabeth Powis, May 7, 1947;
Edward Powis, Jan. 27, 1949; Peter Christian, March 4, 1962.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry McNevin Jones, ’45 (deceased).

OCCUPATION: Artist.

OFFICES HELD: Jreasurer, 1962-63, director, Municipal Art Society of New York;
trustee, New York School of Interior Design, Choate Fathers Association.

MEMBER OF: Union Club of New York; Century Association.

pusLications:. Represented in the Tokyo Print Biannale, 1962; modern religious
prints (circulated by the Museum of Modern Art); animal drawings, The
Seiferheld Helene Gallery, New York City, and other group shows.

HUGH McKITTRICK JONES, JR.

 

HOME AppreEss: 5 Dromara Rd., Guilford, Conn. 06437.

OFFICE apprEss: 71 Whitfield St., Guilford, Conn. 06437.

PREPARED AT: John Burroughs School, Clayton, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: $.B. cum laude, 1940; B.ARCH., 1942;
M.ARCH., 1947.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Siddons Mowbray, Sept. 9, 1940. CHILDREN: Cynthia Sid-
dons, Sept. 16, 1943; Terry West, March 21, 1946; Hugh McKittrick, 3d,
Nov. 20, 1950; Timothy Millard, Nov. 14, 1953.

occupation: Architect (private practice in Guilford).

OFFICES HELD: Representative from Guilford to Connecticut General Assembly,
1963-65; president, Connecticut Chapter, American Institute of Architects,
1963, 1964; executive secretary, State of Connecticut Architectural Exam-
ining Board, since 1963; corporator and trustee, Guilford Savings Bank,
since 1956; president, Guilford Rotary Club, 1957-58; member, executive
committee, Regional Planning Agency of South Central Connecticut, since
1961; chairman, Guilford Town Planning Commission, 1956; chairman,
board of trustees, The Country School, Madison, Conn., 1956-60.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects (Connecticut Chapter); Con-
necticut Society of Architects, Guilford Rotary Club; New Haven Lawn
Club; Sachems Head Yacht Club, Harvard Graduate School of Design
Association, Peabody Museum Associates (Yale),

[ 684 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: Registered architect in Connecticut, New York, Missouri and
certification of National Council of Architectural Registration Boards.

THIS request that a hectic pace be broken in order to reflect on
tw enty-five years at that pace is not easily met. It has indeed been a
twenty-five, and what has been done with it? If I were to write all
that has happened, not only would the narrative be unbearably
long and tiresome, but I would not believe it myself. The time has
gone fast, and yet the children are all growing up. Liz and I will
celebrate our own twenty-fifth in the fall. I guess we have to admit
to being older.

Without going back to look, I believe I put down the first twenty
years fairly faithfully in previous Class Reports. Since then, the
major thing which has influenced my life has been, somewhat un-
intentionally, a deeper involvement in politics. By publication time,
I hope present problems and frustrations in this connection (Reap-
portionment, primarily) are resolved. Whether I still will be a
State Representative or not by then is only part of the problem.

More normal activities have included continuation of the architec-
tural practice I started a few years after getting out of the Navy in
"45, and what appears to be an ever-increasing amount of time spent
on “extracurricular” activities, particularly the American Institute
of Architects. The independent elementary day school with which
I was so deeply involved now is ticking along beautifully without
my help, and we have only one child still to graduate there.

In looking back at my desk calendars for these last five years,
there seems to have been an inordinate amount of travel. Those
notes look as if I always was either returning from visiting a child
at school somewhere or off to some A.I.A. meeting in New Orleans
or Vermont. The travel also has included some fine trips with the
children and a few better ones to warm islands in cold Februaries.

In looking ahead, I can see some of the many activities beginning
to wane, and the possibility of catching up on other things. This
may sound like a broken record to my family, but this time I mean
it! I hope we can travel even more, and I hope we never have to use
that shelter we all built a couple of years ago.

| 685 ]

cance ag ae,

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

OSWALD LOUIS JORDAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 159 Ruthven St., Boston, Mass,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 41 Tremont St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1938. DEGREES: A.B. (Howard Univ.), 1941; A.M. (ibid.),
1942; LL.B. (Boston Univ.), 1951.

marriep: Eva A. Moulton, July 19, 1942. cHtLpren: Oswald Louis, Jr., Aug. 26,
1943; George L., Feb. 28, 1947; Candy F., May 21, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Attorney and community relations director, Massachusetts Com-
mission Against Discrimination.

OFFICES HELD: Member, General Court, 1959-60; Ward Committeeman, 1960-
64, 1964-68; member, Democratic Platform Committee, 1964; president,
Urban Housing Associates, Inc.; executive board member, Roxbury
YMCA; president, Kappa Alphi Psi; area chairman, Heart Fund, 1960-61;
chairman, Laws and Regulations Committee, Roxbury Kiwanis.

MEMBER OF: Kiwanis; Bay State Law Society; I.B.P.O.E.W.; American Veterans
Committee; NAACP; Massachusetts Legal Association.

LIFE is bizarre. Daily one encounters experiences that at the time
of their occurrence appear to be of controlling moment. However,
when subsequently one reports on these experiences retrospection
seems to act as a catalytic reshaping the incidents so that those re-
garded so crucial while they were happening now assume the charac-
ter of little significance. Conversely, incidents regarded of little or
no import upon review are found to have influenced and shaped one’s
life in all of its more important aspects. Without endeavoring to
evaluate events and experiences I shall report forthwith as factually
as possible.

I continued my education by entering Harvard Graduate School
(1945-46), majoring in labor economics.

Upon receiving my Master’s degree I, in rapid succession, got
married, accepted “uncle’s” invitation to become an official member

[ 686 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of his family and genially (?) agreed to become a recipient of his
largesse by seeing some of the world, This was added compulsory
education and experience. However, I did get to see some of Africa
and all of Italy. In the meantime I became a member of the world’s
largest fraternity, the paternal frat.

Returning home “an officer and gentleman” with my shield, I
was the proud progenitor of two additional children who together
with the first added spice to my law school attendance. This was
complemented by regular employment and a venture into business
just to obviate monotony.

Upon completing law school and passing the bar I became acutely
aware of the fact that I had graduated into the position of full time
and perennial chauffeur and treasurer in the single direction system
in which I distributed money, contributed to my favorite charity,
my family, and paid bills. I learned that a father’s program is fine
and must be given every consideration and precedence providing
that it does not conflict with the program of the other members
of the family

Because I have always been interested in civil rights, I took a
position with the Massachusetts Commission Against Discrimina-
tion (formerly called the Fair Employment Practice Commission)
in 1946. Work with this organization has proved rewarding in af-
fording a sense of accomplishment and contribution toward making
for a better society,

As one interested in the community I found myself a member of
many organizations all of which directed their efforts to some degree
toward community and/or society service and uplift. Consistent
with this pattern I was so busy on organizational projects: home and
school, YMCA, the Kiwanis, Veterans organizations, etc., that my
wife very circumspectly, unselfishly and subtly reminded me that
Boston did not need any additional community-spirited individuals
who could offer services to the community but not take care of their
own family. This caused me to cut back my activities from five or
six nights a week from home to a miniscule three or four.

Proposals and support from friends coupled with a latent ambition
to endeavor to be constructively helpful caused me to enter the
field of politics in 1956 as a candidate for elective office, I suc-
ceeded in winning the election in 1958 and served in the House of
Representatives for one term. This vocation eventuated in being
very instructive with plenty of hard work but little monetary com-
pensation and less appreciation for any accomplishment. I learned

[ 687 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

that politics is most interesting and possesses a magnetism to keep one
attracted but is probably the most unappreciated vocation in the
world.

Now my elder son is claiming he is interested in becoming a lawyer.
However, I fear that he is running sufficiently fast to elude being
caught by the young lady who has designs on early matrimony with
him as the prime target.

My younger son loves, honors and obeys all urges having to do
with sports. “He is happy to major in them ‘and minor in an academic
program. In fact he would be most pleased to forego completely the
Jatter. My daughter plans to become a lady-doctor. It is difficult
to reconcile this desire with her love for traveling but with all the
proposed and contemplated innovations in education she may suc-
ceed in finding a traveling medical school.

I have a secret desire to write a few books some day of a scientific
nature on politics and law. Exclusive of that I must confess time and
fate have been kind to me and my family. I trust it will continue in
this vein.

During all the period from 1942 to the. present I have had as an
inspiration, co-conspirator, organizer, pilot, worker and boss a wife
who has shared the joys, burdens, mistakes and rewards without com-
plaint or dissent. One who has always pledged cooperation and given
her best efforts. Thus my greatest achievement has been that of
plaving the role as a main character in a true family in the most favor-
able connotations.

MILTON BARRY JOSEM

 

HOME Abpress: Sasqua Pond Road, Norwalk, Conn,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 71 East Ave., Norwalk, Conn,
preparep at: Norwalk High School, Norwalk, Conn,

[ 688 ]

“enn em eB AE el OTOP TTC
Ps ST I TT TT TOPE E

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.
marriep: Florence Rosenbaum, Jan. 27, 1952. CHILDREN: Ellen Debra, March

16, 1954; Nancy Joy, Jan. 17, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ernest Leo Josem, LL.B., °36.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; partner in Josem & Josem.

OFFICES HELD: President, Norwalk, Wilton Bar Association; trustee, Temple
Beth El; president, Norwalk B’nai B'rith, 1955; director, Norwalk Jewish
Center, Rolling Hills Country Club, Wilton, Conn.; Heart Sunday chair-
man, 1960, 1961,

MEMBER oF: American and Connecticut Bar Associations.
AFTER graduation the local Draft Board summoned me to do
service for our country for a period of some four and a half years.
Upon discharge from the armed forces, I returned to law school to
obtain my degree and have practised in association with my brother
ever since. I have lived in the same community my entire life and |
naturally have engaged in all types of community work and en-
deavors, and trust that my efforts have helped in some small way to
make this community a better place in which to live.

Living so close to New York City, my family has been able to
reap the benefits of small town living and the cultural and educa-
tional facilities of a large metropolitan center. In addition we have
built two new houses, so that now we know what we really desire
in a home.

Traveling and playing golf in my leisure time are two of my
present ambitions, and I feel extremely lucky that I have been able
to take in my share of both.

I often reflect upon the pleasant and rewarding days at Harvard
and wonder why the past twenty-five years have sped by so rapidly.
Certainly, members of our Class have made and will continue to
make outstanding contributions to the world’s affairs, as well as to
many states and hundreds of communities throughout our land.
Harvard must have prepared our members well to justify such ac-
complishments.

[ 689 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

WILLIAM WOLFF JOSEPH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1903 Madison House Apts. 2324 Madison Rd., Cincinnati, Ohio
45208.

OFFICE appress: Belvedere Apts., Cincinnati 29, Ohio.
PREPARED AT; University School, Cincinnati, Ohio.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

mMarrieD: Wilma Fuerstenberg (divorced). cup: Elizabeth, Jan. 15, 1951
HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Joseph, Jr., ’37.
occuPaTIoN: Sculptor.

GEORGE McTURNAN KAHIN

 

HOME Appress: 211 Hanshaw Rd., Ithaca, N.Y.

OFFice appress: Dept. of Government, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Lakeside School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: 8.B. cum laude, 1940; A.M. (Stanford
Univ.), 1946, pap. (Johns Hopkins Univ.), 1951.

Marrien; Margaret McFarlan Baker, July 4, 1942 (divorced 1964). CHILDREN:
Brian, July 23, 1947; Sharon, March 6, 1949.

[ 690 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuPATION: Professor of government, director, Southeast Asia Program and
Modern Indonesia Project, Cornell University.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Indonesia Council, The Asia Society, since 1962;
chairman, Publications Committee, 1964, member executive committee,
board of directors, Association for Asian Studies.

MEMBER OF: American Political Science Association; Association for Asian
Studies, Cosmos Club, Washington, D.C.; Cornell Club of New York;
Authors’ Club, London.

PUBLICATIONS: Nationalism and Revolution in Indonesia, 1952; The Astan-Af-
rican Conference, 1956; Major Governments of Asia, editor (1958, 2d ed.,
1963); Governments and Politics of Southeast Asia, editor (1959, 2d ed.,

1964).

EARL LESTER KAHN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1344 N. Dearborn, Chicago, Ill. 60610.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Social Research, Inc., 740 N. Rush St., Chicago, Ill. 60611.

PREPARED AT: Westport High School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: $.8., cum laude, 1940; A.M. (Univ. of
Chicago), 1947.

UNMARRIED.

occupation: Sociologist; vice-president and managing director, Social Research,

Inc. (motivational research and consulting).
OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Home Study Department, University of Chicago,
1951~64; instructor, University Extension Division, University of Wiscon-

sin, since 1963.
MEMBER oF: American Sociological Association (fellow); Industrial Relations
Research Association; Art Institute of Chicago; Harvard Clubs of Chicago

and Kansas City.

I SUPPOSE the easiest way to sum up the past twenty-five years is
with the rather banal statement that they’ve been busy ones — so
busy, in fact, that I find it difficule now to sort out the details, much
less to credit the fact that so much time has really gone by.

[ 691 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Following Harvard I turned to the University of Chicago, origi-
nally with the idea of doing graduate work in political science. How-
ever, shifting interests soon had me studying sociology instead. This
was interrupted from ’42 to ’46, while I engaged in various ad-
- ministrative tasks for the Air Corps, primarily in British Guiana and
Montana (separated by a period in Miami Beach going through the
metamorphosis known as OCS). I returned to Chicago in 1946 and
finally completed work on and received an A.M. in sociology the
following year.

Shortly after my return to Chicago I took what was presumably
to be a temporary job, working with a group of social scientists
who had just set up an organization aimed at making the techniques
and insights of the behavioral sciences available to the business
world. These were the early days of motivational research, long
before the term “hidden persuaders” had been hurled at us, when the
clients were still few and the future at best shaky. But if the pros-
pects were initially lean, the projects were invariably lively, and
before long it became apparent that the temporary job had become
a very permanent career — one which I am still pursuing.

Helping build an organization is not the easiest task in the world
—and I seriously doubt that I’d have the courage or stamina to
attempt it again — but it has been a very absorbing process, and a
rewarding one. I’ve had the opportunity to meet all sorts of people,
deal with all sorts of situations and problems, and see all sorts of
places (including the innards of far too many airplanes), All told,
the dreams of those early years, if not fully realized, have at least

been reasonably approximated. And that, I suppose, is as much as
one reasonably ought to expect.

[ 692 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THEODORE ROBERT KAHN

    

HOME appreEss: 25 Walters Pl., Great Neck, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Ben Kahn Furs, Inc., 150 W. 3oth St., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Mount Vernon High School, Mount Vernon, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1938-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.
MARRIED: Rachel Roitman, Oct. 4, 1941. CHILDREN: Daniel, Sept. 8, 1948; Deb-

orah, May 5, 1952.
occuPATION: Executive, Ben Kahn, Inc., fur coat manufacturer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

IT has been my pattern to become enthusiastic about something and
involve myself with its opposite. As a great lover of the warm
climate, I find myself at the age of forty-six learning how to ski and
winter vacationing in the north instead of the sunny south.

During college and after graduation, I considered the solution to
the insoluble problems of philosophy the only important endeavor.
Professor Wild and Plato were mainly responsible for this view. As
a result, when I graduated from college I found myself well pre-
pared. Hence, I drifted into the business world.

After two years as a pole line construction man in the U.S. Army,
I attended the University of Pennsylvania School of Dentistry and
obtained a degree. I discovered I didn’t enjoy working in such con-
fined quarters as the human mouth and again went into business.

My present position in Ben Kahn, Inc., is varied and interesting.
As a buyer of raw furs I can exercise aesthetic judgment as our
firm’s first consideration is quality. Last year my wife and I went
to Nepal and Cambodia. I wish I could say it was to hunt Snow
Leopards at the foot of Mt. Everest and the beautiful Cambodian
Tiger. Unfortunately, we did not hunt but our firm does have
Snow Leopard and Cambodian Tiger coats.

Our son, Daniel, is a big strapping boy of sixteen with a mar-

[ 693 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

velous sense of humor who goes his own way. We named him after
the biblical Daniel, a rather poetic figure. Our son’s only love is
sports. He shuns poetry and philosophy. If only his sport was foot-
ball, my first love, I might be reconciled, but his choices are basket-
ball and that slow- -boring baseball.

Our daughter, Deborah, is twelve and was born wise. She knows
your thoughts before you utter them. If she follows her mother
and becomes a social worker, she would be of great service to
society.

Our dog, Homer, a St. Bernard, is my ideal man. His name
symbolizes poetry. He is content, kind, patient, loving, gentle, and
lacks any personal ambition. His huge open face is sad and
humorous.

At present, twice a week in the evenings, my wife Rachel and I go
to school studying poetry and philosophy. My wife writes music
to modern poetry, mainly Yeats, and we have put out a record. The
combination of the words and music, each enhancing the other, is
thrilling.

After years of being a liberal, I find I am following the classic
path and becoming more conservative. I am appalled by the lack of
education of our college graduates and blame it on the elective sys-
tem of education. Last year I took a course in myth and ritual and
was amazed at my ignorance. How could I go through college
without knowing the rites, myths, and rituals common to all
societies and their meaning for man. These facts are as important
for the study of human nature as the facts of embryology are for
the study of evolution. There must be an integration of the im-
portant knowledge and discoveries of the modern age. A merel
well-informed man is no more interesting than a telephone book.
When will all college graduates have a common body of knowledge
and be educated? Do I sound like a man of the Middle Ages or a
middle-aged man?

[ 694 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SUMNER MYRON KALMAN

r ene meee Rech men sco

  

HOME ADDRESS: 2299 Tasso St., Palo Alto, Calif. 94301.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 300 Pasteur Drive, Palo Alto, Calif. 94304.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.D. (Stanford Univ.), 1951.

MARRIED: Anneliese Friedman Korner, Oct. 19, 1952. CHILD: Susan Stephanie, Oct.
18, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor, Department of Pharmacology, Stanford Uni-
versity School of Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Fellow, Dept. of Pharmacology and Therapeutics, 1951-53, Gra-
ham Fellow in Pharmacology, 1954-59, instructor, 1954-56, assistant pro-
fessor, 1956-62, associate professor, since 1962, Stanford University School
of Medicine; fellow, U.S. Public Health Service (National Cancer Insti-
tute), Carlsberg Lab. & Zodphysiological Lab., Copenhagen, 1953-54; Re-
search Career Development Awardee, U.S. Public Health Service, since
1959; visiting professor, Dept. of Bacteriology, Harvard Medical School, -

1961-62,
MEMBER oF: American Society for Pharmacology & Experimental Therapeutics;

Society of General Physiologists.

PUBLICATIONS: Scientific papers dealing with physiological and biochemical
mechanisms of hormone action, genetic control of metabolic pathways in
bacteria and problems of permeability of cell membranes.

I SERVED in the U.S. Naval Reserve from the fall of 1940 until
December of 1945, at which time I was discharged with the rank
of lieutenant commander. After a year of graduate training at the
University of California in Berkeley, I attended Stanford Medical
School, interned in San Francisco and pursued postdoctoral training
in pharmacology and biochemistry at Stanford and in Denmark.
Since 1954 I have been at Stanford in the Department of Pharma-
cology where I currently serve as an associate professor. During a
sabbatical year (1961-62) I was a visiting professor at Harvard in
the Department of Bacteriology and Immunology,

[ 695 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

My home is in Palo Alto where I live with my wife Anneliese and
my eight-vear- old daughter Susan. I play tennis, participate periodi-
cally i in local political activity, and have learned to avoid the diag-

nosis and treatment of diseases that afflict the house and garden. I
would describe myself as a Democrat of liberal persuasion

GEORGE VICTOR KAPLAN

 

HOME appress: 745 Newton St., Chestnut Hill, Mass. 02167.

OFFICE AppREsS: Simon Kaplan Insurance Agency, Inc. 320 Washington St.
Brookline, Mass. 02146.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cu7 laude, 1940; M.B.A. 1947-

MarriepD: Shirley G. Sacks, June 27, 1948. CHILDREN: Peter Roy, Aug. 16, 1949;
David Alan, May 2, 1953.

occupaTIoN: President and treasurer, general insurance agency.

3

TIME has passed much faster these last twenty-five years than they
did the first twenty. After a Pacific tour to Australia, New Cale-
donia, Guadalcanal, Fiji Islands, Bougainville and the Philippines
which lasted thirty-nine months, my desire for foreign travel waned
~— and has not revived to this day. With the war over, I was lucky
to be admitted to the first postwar class at the “B” School across the
river, and spent an enjoyable year and a half, getting my M.B.A.
in June, 1947.

Since then I have been in the insurance business; first with a life
insurance company, then joining firm dealing in all forms of insur-
ance — where I have been able to find both challenges and satis-
factions.

My marriage has resulted in many good years and two sons whose

[ 696 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

care, custody and control have kept us hopping. Watching the
boys grow is a reminder of the passing years.

Although my particular activities encompass a microcosm of
limited scope, they have been able to furnish me with a sense of
contentment in doing work that is of value to others and in par-
ticular in religious and communal affairs.

Looking back to my years at Harvard, I feel that I acquired there
an excellent training in the art of living and a better understanding
of the world about us, and a confidence in what will be in the future.

HENRY KAPLAN

 

HOME ADbRESS: 307 Reservoir Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2001 Beacon St., Boston 46, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.; Belmont High School,
Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; D.M.D., 1944.

MaraieD: Phyllis Juster, July 20, 1958, CHILDREN: Cynthia Ann, Aug. 27, 1959;
Joshua David, July 20, 1961; Deborah Beth, July 16, 1962; Jordan Andrew,
Nov. 15, 1964.

OCCUPATION: Orthodontist; assistant clinical professor of orthodontics, Tufts
University School of Dental Medicine.

OFFICES HELD: President, Greater Boston Dental Society, 1957-58; president,
Boston Alumni Chapter, 1960-61, regent, 1964-65, Alpha Omega Dental
Fraternity; chairman, Tufts Graduate Orthodontic Study Group, 1949-50;
Alumni News editor, Alpha Omega Dental Fraternity, 1959-62; chairman,
Art Committee, Art Festival, Temple Ohabei Shalom, 1964-65; chairman,
Art Advisory Committee, Massachusetts Dental Society, 1964.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Orthodontics; International Association for
Dental Research; American Dental Association; American Association of
Orthodontics; American Academy of Dental Science; Tweed Orthodontic
Foundation; Massachusetts Dental Society; Harvard Dental Alumni Asso-
ciation; Tufts Dental Alumni Association, Temple Ohabei Shalom —

[ 697 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

to help reduce my anxiety as well as, I hope, keep my arteries
flexible.

Finally, for restoring our souls and anticipating the future needs
of our family, in 1960, Phyllis and I purchased a big, old (1820)
house in Rockport, Massachusetts, where we spend the month of

August reading, painting (not always at an easel), sunning, swim-
ming, and tending to our growing family.

JACOB JULIUS KAPLAN

 

ies

HOME AbpREsS: 139 Grafton St. Chevy Chase, Md.

OFFICE ApprEss: Agency for International Development, Dept. of State, Wash-

ington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940; A.M., 1941;

PH.D. 1950.

MaRRIED: Frances Ruth Balgley, May 23, 1948. CHILDREN: Beatrice Balgley,
March 20, 1949; Esther Pauline, Oct. 27, 1954.

occupation: Special assistant to the administrator, Agency for International
Development, Department of State.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; American Economic Association; International
Club of Washington; American Civil Liberties Union.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in professional journals,

WORLD War II transformed my intellectual interest in inter-
national affairs into a more than full time vocation. I spent most
of my military service with OSS, trying to understand what was
happening to Europe’s economy. International economic problems
and policies have been my preoccupation ever since. With the
exception of two years in the late 19q0’s, spent as an associate of
the Center for International Studies at Yale, I have been employed

[ 700 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

by the Department of State or one of the many incarnations of the

foreign aid agency.

The United States emerged from the war with enormous power
and prestige, but little experience or skill in using them for con-
structive purposes. In contrast with the post World War I record,
the U.S. has tried in the years after World War II to behave re-
sponsibly and to act positively. Inevitably mistakes were made;
international problems never scem to subside below the level of
acute crisis let alone disappear; critics at home and abroad remain
articulate and plentiful. Nevertheless, our Reunion comes at the
end of two full decades of comparative peace and unparalleled af-
fluence. Surely our foreign economic policies, including the much
buffeted foreign aid programs, can claim much of the credit for
seeing us through the reconstruction of the industrialized countries
and the decolonization of the less developed areas. I am far from
complacent, either about what has been achieved or what lies ahead.
But to use the familiar language of the university, there has been
a commencement.

As for my own role, I participated in the early preparations of
the Marshall Plan and was also on the U.S. delegation to the 1961
meeting at Punta del Este where the Alliance for Progress was born.
I have served on USS. delegations to numerous other international
meetings and conferences on economic and financial problems.

In 1955, I was appointed U.S. Representative to the Managing
Board of the European Payments Union. The Union played a
critical role in the revival of trade and the elimination of payments
restrictions within Europe and was a focal point for dealing with
European monetary problems. It was brought to a successful
termination at the end of 1958 when its members made their cur-
rencies fully convertible with the dollar. For a few transitional
months thereafter, I served with the Board of the successor institu-
tion, the European Monetary Agreement. During this latter period
I also headed the U.S. delegation to a nine-months-long negotiation
to reschedule Turkey’s foreign debts. Throughout this period, the
Kaplan family resided very happily in Paris.

An assignment to Washington in 1959 led to a complete immer-
sion in the problems of U.S. aid programs to developing nations, as
Assistant Coordinator for Mutual Security. In 1961 I was on
President Kennedy’s Task Force on Foreign Aid which produced

a basic revision in our foreign assistance legislation, organization
and policies. Thereafter 1 was responsible for encouraging indus-

[701 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

trialized nations to increase and improve their aid prograr
for coordinating with our programs both their efforts and
of the international organizations.

All of this has left me with little time for participation in
munity affairs, my wife has assumed this part of our family re
sibilities as well as the more usual ones. In the last four year
has begun to sculpt and has decorated our home with a numb
pieces that intrigue our friends and visitors. More recently sh.
edited a book with Margaret Mead, entitled American Wo
which should be in the bookshops at about Reunion time

Our two daughters are our most rewarding hobby. Their
difference makes us feel as though we had a part in each of
groups of the rising generation. They and their friends ar
source of great encouragement about the future

STANLEY HAROLD KAPNER

 

HOME apprEss: 90 Riverside Drive, New York, N.Y, 10024.
York, NY.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Time Magazine, Time & Life Bldg., Rockefeller Center, New

preparen at: Triadelphia High School, Wheeling, W.Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGRER: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1940.

Marxieo: Catherine Segal, June 28, 1952, crupreN: Philip Alain, Nov. 30, 19585
Frederic Maurice, June 3, 1960.

occupation; Advertising.

MEMsex or: Writers Guild of America, Harvard Club of New York.

WHILE these pages seem a little public for soul-searching, I can’t

really accept “oblivion” either. So a few highlights. New York and

Hollywood until some months after Pearl Harbor, then about four

years in the Navy, one of them learning Japanese Nearly six years

[ 702 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in Paris (1949-55), first free-lancing, then with the U.S. govern-
ment, midway marrying a wonderful French girl. Before and after
this chronology, some writing for magazines, movies, radio and
TV, but not successfully enough to make me believe I could raise
a family. So, since 1958 advertising, a much maligned if not mag-
nificent metier. I’d still like to write a fine play, but I guess it’s

statistically really improbable,

LIONEL KAY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 355 FE. 72d St., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hickok Manufacturing Co., Rochester, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Scarsdale High School, Scarsdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; M.B.A., 1950.
MarrieD: Josette Jane Brice, Jan. 13, 1951. CHILDREN: Michéle Suzanne, Aug.

24, 1954; Daniéle Raymonde, April 20, 1956.
OCCUPATION: Sales representative.
ARRIVAL of questionnaire immediately sent me to four previous
Reports, Seems it was always a period of transition, Much more
settled now.

To review twenty-five years briefly is most difficult and I am
not going to write a book a la Mr. Pulham. Biggest evaluation would
be in area of basic values. The pendulum has made a big swing here
from the material to the intangibles. My “riches” are in family love
and not bank deposits. My legacy will be my children.

[ 703 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

PAUL EDWARD KEATING

 

HOME AppRESS: 45 Needhamdale Rd., Needham, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Liberty Mutual Insurance Co., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarrieD: Jeanne Cooney, Sept. 21, 1943. CHILDREN: Janet Marie, July 2, 1944
(m. Joseph L, Greaney, Jr.); Nancy Ellen, Aug. 11, 1948; Paul Edward,

Jr., Dec. 12, 1952. GRANDCHILD: Jo-anne Greaney, Sept. 17, 1963.

OCCUPATION: Computer systems manager,

oFFices HELD: Grand Knight, Needham Council 1611, Knights of Columbus,
1953-55; president, Liberty Mutual Employees Association, 1955; director,
Newton South Cooperative Bank, since 1957; Town Meeting Member,
Needham, since 1959; captain, U.S. Naval Reserve, since 1960; treasurer
and director, Needham Pool & Racquet Club, since 1963.

MEMBER OF: Needham Knights of Columbus; Naval Reserve Association; Mili-
tary Affairs Committee, Greater Boston Chamber of Commerce.

IN June of 1940 I had a full head of hair, a full set of teeth, lots of
ambition, little money, and no responsibilities. Now twenty-five
years later I have lost all of my hair, some of my teeth, much of my
ambition, and have acquired little money (not much change there
in twenty-five years), and many responsibilities. A lot of water
(fresh and salt) has flowed over the dam in the meantime.

At Harvard I selected my courses and curriculum to lead me to a
career in the field of finance, quite specifically in banking where my
father had spent his entire business life. At graduation, a few calls
on the local banking establishments convinced me that I should
change my sights, so I looked into the related field of insurance and
finally 1 located with Liberty Mutual in their Boston Office as an
underwriter. Fortunately, or unfortunately, depending on how
your thinking runs (mine is the former) I also received a second
piece of paper on graduation, an ensign’s commission in the Naval

[ 704 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Reserve, and after a brief one year’s career with Liberty in both
Boston and Atlanta I was called to the colors and launched on a
four-and-one-half-year tour of duty in the Navy.

In retrospect, these years look exciting because first I served on
five different ships, second I was skipper of four of them and an exec
on the other, and finally I kept my record nearly spotless and re-
turned home in late 1945 wearing two and a half stripes. In the
course of these travels, names out of geography books become real-
ities —- Attu, Kiska, Iwo Jima, Guam, Hawaii, Guantanamo, Trini-
dad, Wake Island, Kodiak. An event of great and permanent magni-
tude occurred during this tour of duty —in September, 1943, I
married the girl I took to the Senior Spread in 1940, and within a
year we became parents of a brown-eyed baby girl. Release from
Naval duty was followed by two significant steps, first my return
to Liberty Mutual to pick up my career which had barely been
started, and second the moving of my new family from my in-
laws to our own home in Needham. Nineteen years later I am still
located in Needham, although we have changed homes, and I am
still in the employ of Liberty, though not in the same position. My
family has grown from one child to three children, a son-in-law, and
a granddaughter, all of whom, as you may Imagine, tend to keep a
fellow in his forties moving around like he is in his thirties but feeling
like he is in his fifties.

As for my business career, I am no longer an underwriter but a
systems manager working with computers. My days are now spent
trying to make IBM prove that their mechanized monster can do
all the amazing things they said it can. This position I find extremely
interesting and challenging, and I wouldn’t trade anything about it
except the salary.

For extracurricular activities, Uncle Sam saw that I took a year’s
Sabbatical from my job during the Korean outbreak, although I
fortunately spent half of that time traveling with the Sixth Fleet i in
the Mediterranean. Since that event I have ‘pursued a sort of second
life in the Naval Reserve and I now find myself wearing four stripes
and serving as commanding officer of the 200-man Naval Reserve
Officers’ School, Boston, whose membership includes several Har-
vardians.

At home Jeanne keeps things organized and carpools number two
daughter Nancy over to Ursuline Academy at Dedham. Paul, Jr.
has made rapid progress to the sixth grade and keeps neighbors on
their toes with his trombone lessons. Janet has forsaken the home-

[705 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

stead for husband Joe and daughter Jo-anne. Little League, Cub
Scouts, Brownies, local political activity (Democratic, of course),
class reunions, plus a modest athletic program (swimming, tennis,
and badminton) all compete for one’s time but also contribute to the
fuller life. Suburban living has been good to the Keatings and, now
that we’ve smoothed out the kinks, 1 look forward to a more tran-
quil twenty-five-year span until our Fiftieth.

WILLIAM BRUNNER KEHL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 295 Fairview Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa, 15238.

OFFICE apprEss: University of Pittsburgh, Pittsburgh 13, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; A.M. (Music), 1942; A.M.
(Math.), 1948.

mMarRieD: Jean Chase Ryan, Oct. 24, 1944. cHmpreN: Anne Williams, Jan. 21,
1949; Catherine Ryan, Jan, 24, 1951.

occupation: Director, Computing Center and professor of computer science,
University of Pittsburgh.

OFFICES HELD: Visiting scientist, Association for Computing Machinery; mem-
ber, Scientific Advisory Committee, Regional Industrial Development
Corporation; consultant to National Science Foundation and National

Institutes of Health, special adviser, National Academy of Science Com-
mittee on the Use of Computers.

MEMBER OF: Pittsburgh Field Club; University Club, Pittsburgh Association for

Computing Machinery; American Mathematical Society, Mathematical
Association of America; $.1.A.M.; O.R.S.A.

I TAUGHT mathematics at M.LT. from 1948 until 1953, and then
joined the M.LT. Instrumentation Laboratory doing research in
inertial guidance. Moved to Pittsburgh in January, 1957, as director
of the Computing Center at the university.

[ 706 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I am convinced of the importance of computers in our cultural as
well as scientific life and in their role in broadening the intellectual
capabilities of man. At present, I am involved with the development
of computer science as a discipline and with special applications in
medicine. -

My daughters attend Ellis School in the ninth and tenth grades
respectively. I am concerned with the lack of support of college
programs for women. My wife and I go to New Hampshire every
year with the children and play golf.

+ RICHARD WILLIAM KELLEY

 

BoRN: Feb. 14, 1919, Somerville, Mass, PARENTS: John Edward Kelley, Helen
McGrath,

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

DIED: Killed in action, June 26, 1943, in North Africa.

RICHARD WILLIAM KELLEY spent a year at the Business
School before entering the service, and served in the Quartermaster
School in Philadelphia and Texas. In June, 1943, he was assigned
to a post in England, was promoted to first lieutenant and pro-
ceeded to the African front. He died in service in North Africa
and was survived by his parents.

[ 707 ]

oe tern

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

BARTOW KELLY

    

er i fab ita |

HOME apprESS: High Rock Road, Fitchburg, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: % Weyerhaeuser Co., Paper Division, Fitchburg, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Ann W. Turner, June 12, 1943. CHILDREN: Bartow, Jr., May 20, 19473
Ann Kyle, May 30, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Shaun Kelly, 736, Ep.p., ’58.

occupation: Paper manufacturing, vice-president of administration, Paper
Division, Weyerhaeuser Company.

OFFICES HELD: Industrial paper salesman, 1946-49, traffic manager, 1949-50,
purchasing agent, 1950-59, trustee (director) of company, 1955, treasurer,
1959, Vice-president and treasurer, 1960, vice-president of administration,
Paper Division, 1964, all with Crocker Burbank & Company Association
or Weyerhaeuser Company; president, Fitchburg Chapter, American Red
Cross, 1948-49, Fitchburg Community Chest, 1958; president, 1961-62,
member, Budget Committee, since 1958, United Fund, Greater Fitchburg;
director, Chamber of Commerce, 1951-53, since 1964; member, executive
committee, since 1949, chairman, 1956, 1957, New England Pulp & Paper
Traffic Association; director, Waste Utilization Council (of paper indus-
try), 1955-60, president, 1957-58; member, New England Purchasing
Agents Association, 1949-59; director, since 1959, president, 1961, 1962,
Association of Pulp Consumers (paper industry); advisory director,
Worcester County National Bank, Fitchburg, since 1957; director, Worces-
ter County National Bank, since 1962, trustee, since 1960, corporator,
since 1958, Worcester North Savings Institution; trustee, since 1961, vice-
president, 1964, Massachusetts Foundation.

MEMBER OF: Fay Club, Fitchburg; Oak Hill Country Club, Fitchburg (director
since 1957, president, 1958, 1959.

A FACTUAL sketch of the past twenty-five years with many
omissions, some on purpose, and a short conclusion of my convic-
tions which could have gone on for many more pages.

Harvard Law School for a year —then the draft board refused

[ 708 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

any further extension — as a doughboy managed to make a quick
trip to Officers Candidate School Class No. 7 at Fort Benning,
Georgia — with my gold bar returned to Camp Wheeler just out-
side Macon, Georgia, in April of ’42 — spent a happy year training
recruits who were on their way to become officer candidates but
more especially meeting and courting the peach who became m

bride. I became aide-de-camp for Major General Louis E. Hibbs —
he and Bill Bingham were athletic directors, respectively, for Army
and Harvard while we were undergraduates. Somehow he thought
he would like a Harvard man for an aide. There were so few of us
who ended up in the Infantry General Hibbs had only one choice.

We fought the battle of Camp Blanding, Florida, and Camp Van
Dorn, Mississippi, from the spring of ’43 to the fall of ’44, with
three months at the Command and General Staff School.

Then came Europe as an Infantry company commander, soon
to Battalion, 63d Division Headquarters, 7th Army Headquarters
in Augsburg and Heidelberg and finally home in March of 1946 and
discharged as a major. By now used to making decisions, handling
people and generally feeling accomplished, I joined Crocker Bur-
bank & Company Association, an old family paper manufacturing
company, and took a cut in pay — had no responsibility —- was con-
_ sidered a kid fresh out of college — a trainee.

I have had a happy and prosperous eighteen years in Fitchburg.
I’ve sold paper, been traffic manager, purchasing agent, and had the
good fortune to become the treasurer and vice-president of this 138-
year-old company.

Two years ago we sold the company to Weyerhaeuser Company
and now I handle the administrative problems of the Paper Division.

During our years in Fitchburg, Bart, Jr., arrived in 1947 and Ann
Kyle in 1954. We’ve done our share of community service from
running fund drives for the Community Chest, Red Cross and
United Fund to being a member of the vestry of the church,

These years have been good to me materially. I’m sure that those
of us who’ve been fortunate do not spend enough of our time in
shaping and directing our community, state and national affairs
because we are so busy with our own narrow sphere of responsibil-
ity. To preserve the freedoms and privileges of the individual all
of us have to take part in the complete community. We cannot
shirk the responsibility that we shouldered when we gathered in
our education and our diploma from Harvard. We then all became

[ 709 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

potential leaders. We should by now be so doing in our chosen
fields and our communities.

t+ HENRY WARREN KELLY

 

BORN: July 23, 1917, Trinidad, Colo. parents: Daniel Thomas Kelly, ’o8,
Margaret Gross.

PREPARED AT: Portsmouth Priory School, Portsmouth, R.I.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: $.B,, cum laude, 1940.

ararriED: Dorothy Turner Smith, July 17, 1943, Lima, Peru. cHitpREN: Henry
Alexander; Marcia Castilla.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Daniel Thomas Kelly, Jr., 43, M.B.4., 48; William Booker
Kelly, ’56.

piep: May 11, 1947, while shooting rapids in Rio Grande, near Taos, New
Mexico.

AT the time of his death, Kelly was secretary of Gross, Kelly &
Company, a pioneer wholesale company with branches throughout
New Mexico and Colorado. He had formerly been associated with
the Mene Grande Oil Company in Venezuela, and during the war
served with the State Department as vice-consul at Iquitos, Peru,
Santiago, Chile, and for a short time had temporary charge at the
Vice-Consulate at Punte Arenas, Chile. After his sojourn with the
State Department, he wrote a book, in conjunction with his wife,
Dancing Diplomats, with a foreword by Oliver La Farge, ’24,
telling of his experiences in the jungles of Peru. The book was
dedicated to The Amiable People Of Iquitos, received acclaim from
the Foreign Service Journal of the State Department, and was
recommended to young men entering the foreign service. Copies
of the book are in Harvard Library~Widener, and at the Harvard
Clubs of New York and Boston.

[710]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Kelly was survived by his wife Dorothy, now Mrs. T. W. Gil-
strap, and his two children.

JOHN HATHAWAY KENDALL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 124 Goden St., Belmont, Mass. 02178.
OFFICE appREss: National Shawmut Bank of Boston, 40 Water St., Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. .

MARRIED: Gladys B. Putnam, January, 1942 (divorced 1946); Marilyn E. New-
hall, Nov. 2, 1957. CHILDREN: Jeffrey Hathaway, June 18, 1944; Scott Hath-

away, Dec. 19, 1961.
OCccUPATION: Banking, selling of computer services, sales representative, Cor-

porate Services Division, National Shawmut Bank.
OFFICES HELD: President, Kiwanis Club of Allston-Brighton, 1963-64; treasurer,

Allston Board of Trade, 1954-64.
MEMBER OF: General Assembly, Boston YMCA; American Institute of Bank-

ing; Bank Officers Association, Boston; Veteran Motor Car Club of Amer-
ica; Horseless Carriage Club of America; Appalachian Mountain Club;
Antique Auto Club of America.

FOLLOWING about five years of service in the U.S. Army, in-
cluding duty in the Arctic and the ETO, I returned to the National
Shawmut Bank of Boston, and have been there since. This period
includes many different jobs, but primarily as a branch manager in
Allston from rggs1 until June, 1964. At that time, I transferred to
a new division of banking and am currently engaged in selling com-
puter services to other banks and businesses. The ability of these
machines to digest mountains of facts and figures, and translate them
into useful information, constantly amazes me.

Hobbies have included an interest in antique automobiles and I
have served as a trustee of the Antique Auto Museum in Brookline,

[71]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

and held offices in other clubs of this hobby. My current car, a
1927 Dodge station wagon, however, is no match for the fine collec-
tion of Classmate Austin Clark.

My present avocation seems to be assisting my wife in raising a
three-year-old, and a basset hound puppy, both presenting real
challenges.

During this time I have participated in many civic and community
programs, as a local banker should, and have learned to respect

those who devote a great deal of personal effort to civic and chari-
table affairs.

WILLIAM ERNEST KENDALL

 

HOME appress: Ralston Road, Palm Beach, N.S.W., Australia.

orFice apprEss: Bradford Kendall, Ltd., 340 Botany Rd., Alexandria, N.S.W.,
Australia.

PREPARED AT: Scots College, Sydney, Australia,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938.

mMarriep: Betty Helen Maxwell, Feb. 19, 1942 (divorced 1964). CHILDREN:
James Maxwell, March 28, 1943; Brooke Margaret, June 10, 1946.

occupation: Steel foundry and engineering, managing director, Bradford
Kendall, Ltd.

OFFICES HELD: Councilor, Metal Trades Employers’ Federation, committeeman
Royal Blind Society.

MEMBER OF: Union Club, Royal Sydney Golf Club; Tattersall’s Club, Cabbage
Tree Club.

I ENJOY my work and living by the beach. Travel on business

extensively within Australia — occasionally overseas. Going grey,

slightly bald, weight 188 pounds. Still swim and surf regularly.

My son is training as a chartered accountant; my daughter is doing
secretarial work. Both want to travel and see the world.

[712]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ELMER VICTOR KENNEALLY

 

HOME AppREss: 36 Pickett Lane, Greenfield, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 479 Main St., Greenfield, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.D., 1943.

MARRIED: Virginia Knowlton, Dec. 26, 1943. cumLpREN: Pamela Ann, Nov. 21,

1944; David, Aug. 5, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Physician and surgeon (ophthalmologist).

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
New England Ophthalmological Society; Pocumtuck Valley Harvard
Club; Kiwanis Club of Greenfield.

PuBLicaTions: Articles on ophthalmology in the medical literature.

THEY have come and gone swiftly, these twenty-five interesting
and exciting years which we are now completing. For me, they
have mostly been spent doing the work I wanted to do and essen-
tially where I wanted to do it. It’s been mostly hard work, true,
but at least I can’t recall ever being discouraged.

Watching our family grow up has been a dynamic stimulation.
Our daughter is now twenty, a junior at Skidmore, and bidding” fair
to soon set out on her own. bur son, fifteen, is a sophomore at
Tilton School, with considerably more athletic ability than his
father ever possessed. Both show many well balanced and admirable
traits of temperament and character which I feel certain were
absent in me at their age. Surely God has mercifully answered this
parent’s prayers by guiding and educating these young people.

Besides my family and work to absorb my time, there has been
a group of fairly well sustained avocations to which I have given
myself enthusiastically over the years. Dogs, mostly Irish Wolf-
_ hounds — breeding, showing, training, judging, and writing about
them; gardening, landscaping, and nursery work; converting our

[ 713 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

woodlot into a tree farm, by forest improvement work, reforest
tion, and water conservation practices; administrative work pertai:
ing to our hospitals and medical societies; teaching summer schoc
participating in our Kiwanis service work; the part-time study ¢
law and legal medicine.
When I was forty, I became a member of the Baha’i Worl
Faith. This event transformed our lives, for my wife also subse
quently entered the Faith. We embarked upon a compelling ane
dedicated study, as though enrolled in a great university. We re
learned from the Faith spiritual truths which seem to have beer
largely forgotten — why we are here on earth, what our proper
relationship to God should be. We learned that God has ordained
in this day, through Baha’w'llah, that human character and morals
must be refined and perfected to a far higher degree than can
now be imagined and that He has given to us the means to accom-
plish this perfection. We came to realize that this chaotic era through
which mankind is now passing, whose destructive forces so few
people understand, is the direct result of man’s persistence in a state
of disharmony with the expressed will of God. To us individually
the Faith has given a specific purpose and direction for life, a
reason for being.
I believe that eventually man’s spiritual nature, now so widely in
- default, will prevail; that signs of this victory are now distantly
visible on the social horizon; and that after further very trying
social upheavals, world-wide order will be securely established by
the end of this century. May God grant many of us the privilege
and opportunity to see, to promote and to participate in it.

714]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE CLAYTON KENNEDY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 12721 Hanover St., Los Angeles 49, Calif.

OFFICE AppREss: Institute of Geophysics and Planetary Physics, University of
California, Los Angeles, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Beaver Head County High School, Dillon, Mont.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., #lagna cumt laude, 1940; A.M., 1941;

PH.D. 1947.
MARRIED: Sally Slocum, 1950. CHILDREN: Clayton Scott, June 19, 1951; Deborah

Flizabeth, June 15, 1952; Jennifer Ann, March 17, 1962.
occupation: Professor of geophysics, Institute of Geophysics, UCLA.
MEMBER OF: American Academy of Arts and Sciences; all geological, miner- |

alogical and geophysical societies in America,

PUBLICATIONS: Sixty-three technical papers in the general field of high pressure
physics, physical chemistry and physics in chemistry of the earth.

I FINISHED a Master’s degree in geology at Harvard in 1941 and
left to join the Alaskan Branch of the U.S. Geological Survey work-
ing on strategic war minerals. I spent four years on the coast of
Alaska and during the last of the war years was assigned to the
crystal-growing section of the Navy Research Laboratory where
we were working on underwater sound devices. I spent my eve-
nings during the war years working on a rather lengthy paper on the
geology of a portion of Alaska. This was published as a professional
paper by the U.S. Geological Survey and when I returned to Har-
vard at the end of the war they excused me from the remaining
residence requirements and gave me a Ph.D. on the basis of this
paper. I joined the Society of Fellows and was a Junior Fellow at
Harvard from 1945 to 1949. I then joined the staff of the Geology
Department at Harvard as assistant professor and was promoted to
the associate professorship in 1953.

The University of California at Los ‘Angeles invited me to join

L715 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

their staff as research professor in geochemistry in 1953 and I re-
signed my post at Harvard to move to California. Here I find the
weather pleasanter than Boston and the politics and the street vastly
cleaner even though the air at times may be a bit dirtier. Here I
have indulged my twin hobbies of the orchids of the world and
primitive art. Tam retained as consultant by the De Beers Diamond
Syndicate which gives me round the w orld trips two to three times
a vear; as a result [ have amassed a collection, and grow in my
greenhouse, approximately 5000 different species of orchids as well
as innumerable hybrids. This is probably the largest collection of
species orchids grown in the world. I vacation in Mexico each
Christmas and have accumulated one of the two or three major
collections of Pre-Columbian Art in America. Middle American
archeology and the orchids of the world thus are my major interests,

other than research on physics and chemistry of the earth. Last
year I made three tips to New Guinea and brought back thirty-

four tons of carvings, masks, bark paintings and war shields from

the Sepic River district in New Guinea as well as a very large col-

lection of the high mountain orchids of New Guinea. In addition

I have made a number of trips to Madagascar, the Great Comoro,

Central and South America. All these trips are oriented around the

collection of showy orchids not currently in cultivation and I have

to my credit the discovery of approximately fifty new species of

orchids dominantly from Madagascar.

{ maintain an active interest in the Los Angeles County Museum
and have been vice-president of the Museum Association. I am
currently listed at UCLA as professor in the Chemistry Department,
the Geology Department, the Geophysics Department and have
also been recently invited to be a professor in the Fine Arts Depart-
ment with the title of professor of ethnic art.

My two eldest children spend their lives on the tennis court and
play" western tournament circuits with indifferent to modest SUCCESS.
My wife’s major interest and avocation is painting, but, unfortu-
nately, a too busy household denies her much time.

[716]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY

 

BorN: May 29, 1917, Brookline, Mass. PARENTS: Joseph Patrick Kennedy, ‘12,
Rose Fitzgerald.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., C77 laude, 1940; LL.D. (Notre Dame
Univ.), 1950; D.A.o. (Staley Coll.), 1951; Lup. (Tufts Coll.), 1954; LL».
(Assumption Coll.), 1955; Lip. (Boston Univ.), 1955; tLp. (Harvard
Univ.), 1956; 8.D., Hon. (Lowell Technological Inst.), 1956; LL.D. (Boston
Coll.), 1956; LL.D. (Northeastern Univ.), 1956; Lup. (Loras Coll.), 1956;
LL.D. (Rockhurst Coll.), 1956, tu.. (Springfield Coll.), 1956; Lip. (Syra-
cuse Univ.), 1957; p.p.A. Hon. (Suffolk Univ.), 1957; Litt.p. (Quincy Coll.
Tll.), 1958; so. Hon. (New England Coll. of Pharmacy), 1958, LL».
(George Washington Univ.), 1961; LL.p. (West Virginia Univ.), 1961;
LL.D. (Yale Univ.), 1962.

MARRIED: Jacqueline Bouvier, Sept. 12, 1953, Newport, R.I. cuitprex: Caroline
Bouvier, Nov. 28, 1957; John Fitzgerald, Jr., Nov. 25, 1960; Patrick Bou-
vier, Aug. 7, 1963 (died Aug. 9, 1963).

HARVARD BROTHERS: Joseph Patrick Kennedy, Jr., 38 (deceased); Robert Francis
Kennedy, 48; Edward Moore Kennedy, ’54.

pieD: Nov. 22, 1963, Dallas, Texas.

wipow: Mrs. John F. Kennedy, New York, N.Y.

JOHN FITZGERALD KENNEDY spent four years with our Class,
was a member of our Permanent Class Committee and while an
undergraduate was an editor of the Crimson, and member of Win-
throp House hockey, swimming and football teams. From 1957 to
1963, he served as a member of the Board of Overscers of Harvard
College. During World War II, he served four years in the Navy,
attained the rank of lieutenant, and was commander of a PT boat
in the South Pacific. Retired from the Navy in 1945 because of
injuries, he was awarded the Navy and Marine Corps Medals and
the Purple Heart. After the war he entered the field of journalism,

[717 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

covering the Potsdam Conference and the opening sessions of the
United Nations for International News Service. He was the author
of Why England Slept (1940) and Profiles in Courage (1956), the
latter winning a Pulitzer prize.

In 1947 Kennedy began his political career, serving in Congress
as Representative from Massachusetts for three terms, as Senator
for two terms, and in 1960 was elected the 35th President of the
United States. As he rode in a motorcade in Dallas, Texas, Kennedy

was shot and fatally wounded by an assassin. He was survived by
his wife, and children.

EDWARD FRAZIER KENNELL

:
“Aen set Asien te deme .°
ener th sete !

  
     
    
 

ch “

HOME AppREsS: R.D. 2, Box 352, Altamont, N.Y.

OFFICE AppRESS: Room 104, City Hall, Albany, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937~1938. DEGREE: A.B. (Fisk Univ.).

Margiep: Phyllis Grady, June 6, 1943. CHILDREN: Jacquelin Marie, July 19, 1947;
James Grady, April 5, 1949.

occupation: Deputy director, Department of Urban Redevelopment, City of
Albany.

orrices HELD: Vice-president, 1952-54, trustee, 1952-54, Harvard Alumni Asso-
ciation of Eastern New York.

MEMBER OF: Beta Pi Lambda Chapter, Alpha Phi Alpha Fraternity, Inc.

BEFORE entering government service in 1961, I spent twenty-one
years in the social work field. My professional career has included
work at the Penn. State Training Center in Morganza, Pennsylvania,
where I served as a boys’ counselor. In 1944 I was appointed to the
position of activities director for the Warren Urban League where
I was employed until my appointment to the executive director's

[718]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

job with the Albany Inter-Racial Council, Albany. I remained in
this position until 1961 when I was appointed by the mayor of
Albany to the post of deputy director of the Department of “Urban
Redevelopment. My special fields are race relations, industrial rela-
tions, housing, group work and urban renewal.

I have served on a number of civic committees, including the
Albany Council of the New York State Commission for Human
Rights, the Albany Housing Authority (serving as a commissioner
for more than sixteen years), the United Negro College Fund
(campaign director for Northeastern New York for the past three
years), and as a member of the advisory committee of the Metro-
‘politan Area Committee of the United Community Chest Funds of
Troy, Schenectady and Albany, New York, and the director of
publicity for the Mayor’s Emancipation Proclamation Committee in
1963.

I have traveled extensively throughout the United States. My
major hobbies are poker, bridge, tennis and football. Mly wife and
children are Catholic, while my own religion is Baptist. I have been
a member of the Democratic Party for more than twenty-five years.

BERGERE ALFRED KENNEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 615 Paseo de la Loma, Santa Fe, N.Mex.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 10 Sena Plaza, Santa Fe, N.Mex.

PREPARED AT: Santa Fe High School, Santa Fe, N.Mex.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: S.B, 1940(41); aM. (Univ. of New
Mexico), 1941; M.p. (Northwestern Univ.), 1944.

MARRIED: Dolores Kornder, Jan. 11, 1945. CHILDREN: Kathleen Bergere, Oct. 18
1946; David Donnelly, Sept, 30, 1947; Marie Cristina, Oct. 24, 1949; Nanevy,
Dec. 13, 1950; Ellen Marie, June 24, 1952.

occupation: Private practice of internal medicine,

[719]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

orrices HELD: Chief of staff, St. Vincent Hospital, Santa Fe, 1965; president,
New Mexico Tuberculosis Association, 1951, Santa Fe Medical Society,
1956, chairman, Board of Health, New Mexico District 1, 1955-65; secre-
tarv-treasurer, New Mexico Thoracic Society, 1950-65; clinician, 1948~6o,
medical director, 1960-65, District 1 Chest Clinic, member, Advisory Com-
mittee, New Mexico Medical School, 1961-63, St. John’s College in Santa
Fe. 1961-65; director, Santa Fe School Ski Program, 1962-65.

areMpER oF: Ski Patrol, Santa Fe Ski Basin (member and instructor); Santa Fe
Ski Club (president, 1962).

THE practice of internal medicine in a small city in New Mexico
has many compensations, few of them monetary. Harvard gradua-
tion was followed by an A.M. in biochemistry, medical school, in-
ternship -— and matrimony. Marriage was not undertaken solely
for the purpose of acquiring an income, although my bride did pro-
vide our only revenue through internship and the ensuing residency.
After two vears of Army service, we faced a decision which was
also a long-range commitment: would it be a metropolis or the
mountains: I do not believe that such a decision is ever made with-
out regrets, no matter which course is plotted; but the choice is
binding and the mountain-desert country is endlessly fascinating.

In a recent article of the New England Journal of Medicine, Dr.
John C. Frevmann (M.D., °46) of Worcester, Massachusetts, defined
a “Third Force” in American medicine, a cadre of physicians who
are not of the academic and research community, but are equally
not of the market place, an amorphous group which has in common
only its abiding allegiance to the educational process, and which
maintains whatever ties it can to the Ivory Tower. It is pleasant
to believe that Dr. Freymann is correct, and that one can belong
to such a force.

And in less professional moments, we can camp in nearby wilder-
ness areas (daughters are excellent company in camp), can ski just
forty-five minutes from the office, can read a book, hear an opera,
attend a seminar or concert, can paint a windowsill or trim a rose
bush. All the while, we remember gratefully the background on
which we attempt to build, and somehow survive each crisis en-

gendered by the children in the growing-up process — theirs and
ours.

[720 ]

a ORCC SOI NA a TOE eee anerasemingenaesaie ener

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN KEPPEL

   

 

ih.

HOME ADDRESS: 4770 Reservoir Rd., N.W., Washington, D.C.

OFFICE appreEss: Foreign Service Institute, Dept. of State, Washington, D.C.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Grace Marjorie Wood, June 7, 1952. cHiLp: David, Nov. 2, 1956.
_ HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Keppel, ’38.

OCCUPATION: Foreign service officer.

AFTER working briefly in my father’s art business, I joined the
Army as a private early in 1941. Serving in the continental United
States, Hawaii and the European Theatre of Operations, I was
released from active service in January, 1946, with the rank of
captain. After a year and a half’s study I was commissioned a
foreign service officer in the early summer of 1947.

Since then I have served at Moscow (twice), Bad Nauheim,
Pusan, Seoul and Taegu, Regensburg, Rome, Brasilia, and Rio de
Janeiro, where I was political counselor and from which I have just
recently returned. I spent most of the period 1957-62 in the United
States, the first three and a half years in the Department of State
and an academic year as a fellow in the Center for International
Affairs at Harvard.

In 1952, on my return from Korea, I married Grace Marjorie
Wood of Little Rock, Arkansas. We have one boy, David, now
eight, born in Rome.

[721 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

WALTER NEWBERRY KERNAN, II

 

HOME AbpDRESS: 642 Brush Hill Rd., Milton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hill & Barlow, 53 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: South Kent School, South Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 19403 LL.B. 1949.

MARRIED: Jeanne I. Watson, Jan. 2, 1942 (divorced 1948); Sarah Wiggles-
worth, Oct. 23, 1949. CHILDREN: Wende W,, Oct. 1, 1942; Timothy S.,

Feb. 26, 1951; Susan, Dec. 9, 1952; Walter Newberry, Jr., March 27, 1956;
Henrietta, June 15, 1962.

HARVARD BROTHER: Reginald Devereux Kernan, ’ 36, M.D. 44.

OCCUPATION: Corporation lawyer, partner, Hill & Barlow, corporate law.
DFFICES HELD: Numerous.

MEMBER OF: Various bar associations and social clubs.

WITHIN a week after the Yale race at New London in June, 1940,
: found myself working in Chicago for an investment banking firm
ind trying to combine living and social activities on twenty-five
dollars a week. This was fun but did not last long. In the fall of
940, the authorities in Washington began pulling numbers out of
: hat, and if mine was not number one, it was pretty close to it.

Rather than be drafted, I decided to enlist to “get my year over
vith.” The Navy, Marines and Air Force found my eyesight
vanting, so I found myself a thirty-dollar-per-month buck private
1a Brooklyn National Guard Artillery outfit which was called into
‘ederal service in 1940.

My initiation to Federal Military Service was not auspicious.
ack Tams and I celebrated my induction by touring New York
ight clubs with the result that my non-ringing alarm clock caused
re to miss my first 6:00 A.M. roll call, so that 1 was greeted on
wakening at 10:00 4.M. by a squad of military police. As a result,
Wy first three weeks of military duty were spent trying to clean

[722 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

greasy plates with non-detergent soap, inadequate towels and luke-
warm water at Madison Barracks, New York. We occupied a regular
army barrack which must have been built by George Washington
and not repaired since the War of 1812. Sub-zero wind would sweep
down Lake Ontario, and pass through the barracks like water
through a sieve. A bunk on the leeward side of the building would
sometimes escape the snow that would blow in the windward side.

Enough of this. From buck private in December, 1940, through
an early prewar Officers Candidate School, I ended up in May, 1942,
commanding a Field Artillery battery with the 77th Infantry
Division. That Division, after being shuttled back and forth
across the country several times, ended up as an amphibious division
in the Pacific engaging in operations on Guam, Leyte and Okinawa.
During the two years in the Pacific, I spent about six months on
board various troop transports and played 2,106 rubbers of bridge,
5,142 hands of pot-the-limit poker and innumerable games of crib-
bage (I misplaced my cribbage records and apologize for having
to generalize).

There were ups and downs in my war experience. Two unfor-
gettable episodes: at dusk on Christmas Eve of 1944, we moved into
a small Philippine village in central Leyte recently occupied by the
Japs and surrounded by Jap-held mountains. Urged by a heavy
shelling which greeted us on our arrival in the darkness, I leaped
into a slit trench just dug by our headquarters detail only to find
that I had jumped from the pot into the fire as the trench had been
dug in part in a fresh Jap latrine.

In the second episode, having been engaged with the Japs steadily
for three months without fresh clothes, with poor and often non-
existent food at the end of a long supply line, we were pulled back
to a beach to be moved by Navy landing craft to a staging area
to get ready for Okinawa. In my decrepit condition, I was recog-
nized by Pie Truesdale who kidnapped me to his LSM, gave me
a shower, hot fresh food, clean clothes and then ensconced me with
two other officers on the fan tail with a case of beer where all night
long, oblivious to reality, we sang and drank as the LSM, guided
by sober Pie, moved in blackout down the Leyte Coast dodging
unmarked reefs, mines, Jap PT boats and curious enemy aircraft.

With high “points” I was shipped back to the States from Tokyo
in an empty Liberty ship, bucking easterly gales across the North
Pacific (forty-five days); from there, eventually, to the Harvard
Law School from which I graduated in January, 1940.

[ 723 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

I cannot say that the fifteen years since law school have been
uneventful — to the contrary. The end result is some gray hair,
a delightful wife, a gaggle of children, a Chincoteague pony and
plenty of activity.

If I had to do it all over again, I cannot think of any thing that

I would do differently — except possibly jumping into that slit
trench.

AUSTIN STAATS KIBBEE, JR.

eres CRIME TREES
~ gaagieeg PM ESA IONE AERO AT SE SET
i et,

 

HOME Appress: Turner Center, Maine 04283.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREES: s.B. (Northeastern Univ.), 1947; S.M.
(Rensselaer Polytechnic Inst.), 1964.

MARRIED: Patricia Rice Kent. curpren: Three.

occuPaTION: High school science teacher.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society, New England Association of Chem-
istry Teachers; National Science Teachers Association; Central Associa-

tion of Mathematics and Science Teachers, American Federation of
Teachers.

[724]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN ANDREWS KING, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2311 Tracy Pl., N.W., Washington, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Economic Development Institute, International Bank For Re-
construction & Development, 1818 H St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; LL.B. cum laude,
1943 (48).

MarRiED: Marie Rose Passerin d’Entréves, July 2, 1953. camp: Marie Josephine,
April 21, 1954. .

occuPaATION: Staff, Economic Development Institute, IBRD, EDI is a staff col-
lege for government officials, concerned with economic development, from
the developing countries.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Middlesex School, 1946-48, Chicago Council on Foreign
Relations, 1949-51, Hull House Association, 1950-51, International Student
Association, 1958-62, World Affairs Council, Boston, 1959-62; Sheridan
School, Washington, 1963; secretary, International Legal Studies, Harvard
Law School.

MEMBER OF: Federal City Club, Washington, Racquet Club, Chicago, American
and Chicago Bar Associations.

This delinquent member of ’40
Longed to write a biography sporty
But he lacked enough time

To make up the rhyme

So P. Pratt gets one that is shorty.

[725]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

MYLES GEORGE KING

Jorn eter

    

a 4 7

HOME aporess: 1430 Hackett Ave., Long Beach, Calif. go815.
OFFICE appress: Excelsior High School, Norwalk, Calif. 90056.
prepared at: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; A.M. (San Francisco State
Coll.), 1951.

MarrieD: Bertha Johnston, Sept. 13, 1946. cHitp: Camille Margaret, Aug. 3,
1947-

occupation: Teacher of English, Excelsior High School.

MEMBER OF: California Teachers Association.

OUT of the chaos, frustration and bitterness of the great economic
crises of the thirties ] got the Degree. Remember the deathly silence
and the unsounded sour notes that surrounded the Baccalaureate?
My war services were routine. After the war I floundered trying to
make a living in the West while seeking reinspiration. The great
expectations and the rising hopes were still present. Somehow a
law school with its impersonal setup and materialistic guidelines was
not the answer.

I married a graduate of Pennsylvania State College and the Uni-
versity of Pennsylvania, we have a daughter, an enormous source
of joy and satisfaction. I got a Master’s degree in education and
moved from elementary to high school teaching. After several jobs
in northern California we moved to southern California.

On a well-earned sabbatical leave we toured Europe in a Volks-
wagen; we visited all the countries of western Europe. We visited
classmates in Paris and Rome. People everywhere were friendly
and helpful. Every minute of the trip was memorable. We plan to
return to southern France someday. Naturally we have done a large
amount of traveling and camping in the United States, and we plan
to do more. Two summers ago I toured Japan independently for

[726 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

about three weeks. Japan is a lovely and an exciting place. Last
summer we toured Mexico by car when we were not fighting sick-
ness of one kind or another.

The impact of the shortened lives of JGA, NDA, JPA, JMA,
FWB, JLC, SC, LCC, WCC, FC, CD’A, HGD, JRD, HNE, WMIF,
RSGH, CWH, ABH, JHI, FHJ, RWK, NPK, RAK, GTL, JHL,
RML, RL, SFP, RS, DMS, DOT, PVP, BW and WW as delineated
in the Sixth Anniversary Report still lingers in my consciousness.
The addition of JFK affects us profoundly. No doubt, there will
be others which later Reports will reveal. Society must learn how
to treat the hostile misfits. Perhaps great institutions like Harvard
should make a greater effort in this direction.

Time mellows many things, and age makes its marks as we all so
well know. I still have an optimism that I hope prevails. Even if
the time is short, I want to make some kind of a permanent contribu-
tion to society. My daily work consists of trying to make a positive
contribution to some two hundred or more teen-agers in the field
of English; most of these youngsters are supposed to be average,
but none is. We certainly must give more thought to the develop-
ment of standards and goals that are attainable.

Meantime, whenever you are in this part of the country, stop in
Long Beach; we always have room for visitors.

+: JAMES THOMAS KIRBY, JR.

 

BORN: Sept. 1, 1916, Arlington, Mass. PARENTS: James Thomas Kirby, Rhoda
Collins,

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1940(41).

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Collins Kirby, ’41.

[727 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940
pied: Scpt. % 195% Belmont, Mass.

AFTER college Kirby spent four and a half years in the Army
attained the rank of captain in the Quartermaster Corps and par-
ticipated in the campaigns in the European Theatre. At the time of
his death he was manager of the special order department of the
Harvard Cooperative Society, He had previously worked as a

sales manager for an engincering company. He was survived by
his mother and a brother.

HAROLD EUGENE KIRKBY

 

HOME ApbRESS: 1739 Sunset Cliffs Blvd., San Diego 7, Calif.

orFice appress: California Western University, San Diego 6, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Norwich High School, Norwich, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: 8.B., cum laude, 1940; A.M. (Stanford
Univ.), 1943; pH.p. Cibid.), 1955.

occUPATION: Associate professor of the physical sciences; coordinator of the
Natural Sciences Program, California Western University, San Diego.

OFFICES HELD: President, Sequoia Club, 1953-54.

MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science, etc.

PUBLICATIONS: O72 the Density of Aqueous Solutions of Lauryl Sulpbonic Acid
(a.m. Thesis, 1943); The Surface Charge on Metallic Mercury in Contact

vith Aqueous Solutions of Mercurous Salts (pun. Dissertation, 1951);
numerous syllabi, short articles, etc.

HARDLY narrative in form, this is the story of my years since 1940:

Teaching assistant, acting instructor, instructor in physical sci-
ences, Stanford University, 1940-45, instructor in the physical sci-
ences, University of Chicago, 1945-46; instructor in the natural
sciences, Chicago, 1946-49, and resident head, Coulter Elouse, Bur-
ton-Judson Court; assistant professor of the natural sciences 1949-

[728]

 

Si crmctopast yaad ee ©

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

52 (assigned to teaching duties at Shimer College, 1950-52); chair-
man, natural sciences, Shimer College, 1950-59; Ford Faculty Fellow,
Harvard, 1954-55; visiting professor of the natural sciences, Uni-
versity of Puerto Rico, summer, 1956, European travel and research,
summer, 1957; National Science Foundation Research participant, In-
stitute of Paper Chemistry, Appleton, Wisconsin, summer, 1959; par-
ticipant, National Science Foundation Institute on the History and
Philosophy of Science and Mathematics, American University, sum-
mer, 1961; on leave from Shimer College to Deep Springs College,
professor of science and mathematics, 1959-60; provost, February-
May, 1960; chancellor, professor of science and the history and
philosophy of science, Deep Springs College, June, 1960-63; on
leave, 1962-63, as associate professor of the physical sciences, Cali-
fornia Western University; associate professor of the physical
sciences at California Western University, since 1963.

CRAWFORD NEAL KIRKPATRICK, JR.

 

HOME AppRESS: 309 Greenwood Rd., Ruxton, Baltimore 4, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 6 E. Eager St., Baltimore 2, Md.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.D. (Columbia Univ.), 1943.

MaRRIED: Elizabeth R. Gross, June 14, 1947. CHILDREN: Elizabeth B., June 16,
1948; Crawford Neal, 3d, June 8, 1950; Sarah Elder and Mary Emily
(twins), May 29, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Boggs Kirkpatrick, ’43.

OCCUPATION: Physician — internal medicine.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in medicine, Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.

MEMBER OF: American Socicty of Internal Medicine, plus other medical so-
cieties,; Maryland Club, Elkridge Club; Harvard Club of New York.

AFTER A.B. at Harvard in June, 1940, spent three and a half years
[729 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

in medical school at Columbia University College of Phys
and Surgeons. Then I spent four years at the Union Memorial
pital in Baltimore — from intern to resident in medicine.
1948 I have been in the private practice of internal medicine
part-time teaching at the Johns Hopkins School of Medicine.

In June, 1947, 1 married Elizabeth R. Gross of Harrisburg, F
syWwania, a graduate of St. Timothy’s School, Bryn Mawr Co

(1942) and the Presbyterian Hospital School of Nursing in ]
York City. We have four children — Elizabeth B. (Tina), nov
St. Timothy’ s School; Crawford Neal, 3d (Rick), at Gilman Sch

and twin girls, Mary Emily and Sarah Elder (Molly and Sally
Calvert School in Baltimore.

1am happy and enjoy life. I still play golf once or twice a we
1am a conservative Republican but liked Scranton better than Gc
-ater. g

water. I belong to a southern Presbyterian Church and happen
be active in this church, being at the moment a deacon and a trust

GIFFORD KITTREDGE

 

HOME appress: 723 Ashland Ave., Wilmerre, Ill

oFFice appress: Olson Division, Unarco Industries, Inc., 2418 Bloomingdale
Ave., Chicago, Ill. 60647
preparen aT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940,

marrieo: Anne Drew Reynolds, June 12, 1943. cHrLoren: Gifford, Jr., April

22, 1944, David Drew, March 20, 1947; Anne Reynolds, April 28, 1951
Joan Gifford, Dec. 26, 1954.

industry

. >
occupation: Vice-president and general manager, Olson Division, Unarco In-
dustries, Inc,, manufacturers of package conveyors for institutions and

ovrices HELD: Vice-president, Package Conveyor Institute, since 1964

{730 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Package Conveyor Institute; Chicago Curling Club, Wilmette
Sailing Club.
PUBLICATIONS: Several patents pending covering special conveyor designs.

I PREFER to postpone most of my vital statistics unul my soth
Anniversary Report, when I should have the proper perspective to
deal with the situation.

Still happily married to Anne Drew Reynolds, who took my
name in 1943, and has filled our home with children, love, humor
and not a little wisdom. David, eighteen, Anne, fourteen, Joan, ten,
are properly spaced to keep the educational budget evenly high
over twelve years leaving a few more to prepare for a gracious
retirement.

Sailing, scouting, Sunday School, curling are minor diversions.
My main interest since the war has been the package conveyor
business. We are a major factor in the burgeoning field of auto-
mation. Prospects fascinating.

BURTON HAROLD KLEIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 274 Quadro Vecchio Drive, Pacific Palisades, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rand Corp., Santa Monica, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Sandstone High School, Sandstone, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., #agna cum laude, 1940; A.M. 1948;
PH.D. 1953.

MarRiED: Audrey Lee McCuen, February, 1942 (died 1953); Cecelia J. Katz,
January, 1955. CHILDREN: Roger, Dec. 31, 1944; Jon, April 23, 1946, Mar-
garet, Aug. 26, 1948,

occupation: Economist.

OFFICES HELD: Head of Economics Department, Rand Corporation, since 1964;
on leave: special assistant to U.S. Secretary of Defense, NATO.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa,

[731]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

THE activities I have been engaged in since 1940 include being an
Air Force navigator, a graduate student (i.e., going to Schumpeter’s
lectures), a staff member of the President’s Council of Economic
Advisers, a member, and now head of the Rand Corporation’s Eco-
nomic Department. Presently, I am on a temporary assignment for
the Defense Department at NATO. (My prediction for the Al-
liance: It will somehow manage to survive, and in 1980 will be
debating the same issues it is today.)

My family includes a wife and daughter here in Paris (where they
would like to remain forever), and two sons, both college students
in California. Principal hobbies include three Skye terriers, fishing
and playing the violin with an understanding chamber music group.

++ NORMAN PERSHING KLINKER

 

BORN: Dec, 8, 1918, Denison, Iowa. parents: Peter John Klinker, Garnet
Norman.

TRANSFERRED FROM: Iowa University, lowa City, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1938-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

piep: Killed in action, Jan. 6, 1944, in Italy.

AFTER graduation Klinker spent two years at the Law School and
then entered the service as a second lieutenant of Field Artillery.
Soon promoted to first lieutenant he served as judge advocate before
going overseas to North Africa. He saw action in Tunisia and Sicily
before joining General Clark’s army in Italy. Klinker was killed
in action on the Italian front and was survived by his parents.

[ 732 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM HENRY KNAPP

 

HOME apprEss: North Castle Farms, Armonk, N.Y. 10504.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Condé Nast Publications, Inc., 4z0 Lexington Ave., New York,

N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Port Chester High School, Port Chester, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarrieD: Yrsa Kolding, March 1, 1947. CHILDREN: Peter Laurance, Jan. 7, 1949;
Jessie Yrsa, Jan. 19, 1954.

occupaTION: Publishing.

MINE is a typical Horatio Alger story. By the time graduation
came around, I had made up my mind to go to work in the magazine
publishing industry. I figured that as soon as I learned how things
were done I would be able to raise some capital and launch one or
two magazines of my own. These ventures would be hugely suc-
cessful, contribute much to public enlightenment, make my name
a household word, and earn me a few million. The project would
probably occupy me for five or ten years. Beyond that, my plans
were of necessity vague and unformed.

For the past twenty-four years I have been employed in various
capacities by a concern that publishes magazines. Very recently
there have been occasions when I have been unable to distinguish
between an advertising page and an editorial page. In short, the
time has gone so fast, and I have learned so litrle!

But all in all I consider myself fortunate. I have been married to
the same woman for eighteen years and she weighs within a pound
of the 114 she weighed the day I married her. I pay the mortgage
and fight insect pests on one-and-a-half acres of barren ground
within commuting distance of Manhattan. I have a boy sixteen, a
girl eleven, and three dogs to keep things lively around the house.

[ 733 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940
have a summ corrage beside a lake with sailboats and outboa ard
ts of disr

a constan veh

| belie the bigge st problems i the world t today ar e the world.
rde n silitary osture and the population e “lost on. I believe the
idest thi ng in the world today bs 5 the ore ard e ee
plane net of so man ny of God’s c Whales eagles, condor
rurties, trout, mountain sheep, the lar re African mammals, and
ie other creatures marked as the next victims of man’s push for

and sustenance all have my deepest concern. But barrin
© war, I do not think things in our time will be much different
he way they are now.

WOLFGANG DIETRICH KOESSLER

 

Caroline Ct, Ontario, Calif, — |
¢ and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.
936-1937. DEGREES: A.B, (Univ. of California at Los Angeles),
), 1951. |
> Marie Carsten, 1953. CHILDREN: Ann Kathrin, Oct. 2,

eth, Jan. 17, 1959.
of German,

U.S, Marine Corps in the spring of 1941. Served
il retired for disability in the grade of mayot

“s were hectic ones. They included a stint 1"
for American Overseas Airlines, a season &

spen Ski School in Colorado and ended prot:
1 German literature from the University at
(SIN 1951.

734

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1953 I was married to Hildegarde Marie Carsten. We have
two charming daughters, Ann Kathrin and Mary Elizabeth.

For the past ten years I have been the teacher of German in a
high school of 3600 students in the small town of Ontario, in south-
ern California.

My hobbies are skiing with my three girls and deep sea fishing.

ELLIOT KORIM

 

HOME ADDRESS: 99 Belcher Ave., Brockton, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 47 W. Elm St., Brockton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea Senior High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940, M.p. (Middlesex
Medical School), 1945.

MARRIED: Fay Simon, Sept. 8, 1946. CHILDREN: Reva Beryl, June 30, 1949; Ira
Neal, Aug. 8, 1952.

occupPaTION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: President, Brockton Chapter, Jewish National Fund; member,
board of directors, Temple Beth Emunah, Y.M.H.A., Brockton, Mass.
MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American Academy of General

Practice; American Geriatrics Society; local medical societies.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago I was told by President Conant that
I could join the company of learned men. In the flush of recent
achievement I believed this to be true, and perhaps it was — at the
time. After all, I could synthesize — on paper — complex organic
compounds; I could date a Gregorian chant and discuss chiaroscuro.
Looking back over the years, however, I find that I lost much of this
knowledge, and its pursuit has been all but abandoned. New move-
ments in the arts have come and passed me by; society is in turmoil
and I have remained on the sideline, This has been mv one great
regret, that in an age of specialization so little time is left for the

[735 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

day-to-day generalities. And yet, I must not complain, for the years
have been kind to me.

I had always wanted to be a doctor, and a doctor I became. Of
course, if you ask my relatives and friends, I did not live up to my
promise. They knew all along that I would someday find the great
Cure. This I] haven't done, and doubt if I ever will. Have I failed?
Not really! I belong to that rare breed — the disappearing general
practitioner. We don’t do the dramatic or the impossible. But when
the call comes at night, we answer it. We get our satisfaction and
fulfillment from the little things in life. We reassure the distraught
mother, support the aged, give confidence to the frightened child.
When, at the end of a tiring day, | wonder what I have accomplished,
1 think of the old lady who breathes easier, of the child who coughs
less, and feel amply rewarded.

I have done my small bit for the community. I have given of my
wisdom to Temple problems, education and the “Y.” To help raise
money for the hospital, I became a stage performer. It was said at
the time that my interpretive ballet dancing was without parallel —
thank God—and my singing belonged to another world. I still
feel spry and will continue to perform if they will let me.

My finest hour occurred in 1946 when my wife married me.
When I told my chief at the hospital that I was marrying Miss
Simon, he was pleased, for she would be the realist to my dreamer.
Ever since then we have taken turns dreaming and being realistic,
and it has worked out just fine. My daughter Reva is a sophomore
at Thayer Academy where, among other things, she is studying

Chinese. My son Ira, in junior high school, is determined to attend
Harvard and become a doctor and a comedian. Sometimes I think
he has the right combination after all.
Twenty-five years have gone by and much has been accomplished.

I hope there are another twenty-five years left, for I am still planning
for the future.

[ 736 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SHUBRICK THOMPSON KOTHE

 

HOME ApbRESS: 4550 N, Park Ave., Indianapolis, Ind. 46205.

OFFICE apprEss: Kothe & Shotwell, 1500 Fletcher Trust Bldg., Indianapolis, Ind.

PREPARED AT: Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Barbara Remy, Dec. 20, 1941. CHILDREN: Julia Shubrick, March 7,
1943; James S. Remy, July 12, 1946; Alison Victor, Dec. 14, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary, Indianapolis Bar Association, 1957-59; president, In-
dianapolis Legal Aid Society, 1960-61; director, Family Service Association
of Indianapolis, 1954-57; trustee, since 1960, vice-president, since 1962,
Tudor Hall School; chairman, Attorneys’ Division, United Fund.

MEMBER OF: American, Indiana State and Indianapolis Bar Associations.

DANIEL KRAEMER

 

HOME ADpREsS: Kvutzat Lavi, Mobile Post, Lower Galilee, Israel.
TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Wisconsin, Madison, Wis,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: A.B, 1940; LL.B, 1944 (47).

[737]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

sarsep: Jean Levinson, Seprember, 19y9. camepren: Roce Yaakov, August,
i950, Sima Bracha (daughter), November, 1962.
cocepaTion: Farmer.

1 WAS at Harvard College from 1937 to 1940, returned later to law
school, but schooling there was interrupted by the war. I left law

practice in Newark and settled in a small kibbutz. At Lavi I farm,
tending fruit trees.

+ ROBERT ARTHUR KRANCER

 

poan: Aug. 15, 1918, Boston, Mass. parents: John Jerome Krancer, Eleanor
Maccormick.

PREPARED AT: WWatertown High School, Watertown, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B, 1940,
Magragizo: Priscilla Sprague.

prep: Killed in action, Dec. 13, 1943, in North African Area,

ROBERT ARTHUR KRANCER spent a short time in the advertis-
ing ficld before going on active duty with the Naval reserve in
November, 1941, aS an ensign in communications, After training
he went to North Africa, and was a lieutenant, USNR, when he

was killed in action in the Mediterranean Theatre. He was sur-
vived by his wife.

[738]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM GIBANS KRAUS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2137 Sagamore Rd., Akron, Ohio 44313.

OFFICE appREss: 1209 Akron Savings & Loan Bldg., Akron, Ohio 44308.

PREPARED AT: Kentucky Military Institute, Lyndon, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.D. (Western Reserve
Univ.), 1945.

MarrieD: Dr. Jane Merrill, Sept. 5, 1953. CHILDREN: William Erle, Dec. 3,
1954; Robert Merrill, Sept. 30, 1956; Jane Ann, Aug. 23, 1958, Frederick
Charles, Aug. 13, 1961.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Kraus, ’45.

OccUPATION: Orthopaedic surgeon,

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Harvard Club of Akron, 1954-57; assistant instructor,
orthopaedic surgery, University of Pennsylvania, 1949-53.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Kappa Kappa (medical fraternity); Akron Ciry Club;
Harvard Club of Akron; Akron Art Institute; W. Edwin Palmer Lodge,
F, & A.M.; American and Ohio State Medical Associations; Interstate
Orthopaedic Society.

TO begin with you might say that I was a slow starter. The first
year following my graduation I spent working for Goodyear on
the college training program and playing bridge. This is not what
I went to Harvard for; I took no such courses, However, I got
my feet on the ground and started medical school at Western
Reserve the following year. The ensuing four years were spent
following the prescribed courses and being best man at everybody
else’s wedding. One year was spent in a surgical internship here.
The Army then issued its clarion call, and I discovered West
Virginia (Veterans Administration Hospital) a full fourteen years
before the 1960 primary. I returned to Cleveland for another, year
of general surgery before going to the Univ ersitv of Pennsy Ivania
for my orthopaedic residency. My Spare time here was spent on
many enjoyable weekends with Tom Duane (39) and his lovely

[ 739]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

and hospitable wife Julia in delightful Bucks County. Six

of my residency were spent at the Alfred I. DuPont Insti
crippled children’s hospital i in Wilmington, Delaware).

In 1953, at the termination of my “orthopaedic training,
time to return to Akron, Ohio, and face the facts of eco
survival. This 1] accomplished first in group practice and fine
a loner. 1 also faced the fact that it was probably now or
as far as taking a wife, and since then the years have really .
by. We have “been gifted with three fine boys and one swee
noisy little girl. The children now range between ten and t
and home life becomes very active w hen school is not in sessic
We built a colonial house and have an abiding interest in ;
century antiques and architecture, As to the future, we hope tc

the children started along the right paths, including three sor
Harvard, and to find more time for travel for all of us. Our cht

afhliation is the Congregational denomination, and we try our
to be good Republicans in this Democratic world

+ FREDERICK HERMAN KRECH

 

woan: June 11, 1919, Hackensack, N.J. parents: Herman Krech, Inez Gluckler.
preparen AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; LLB. (Univ. of Michigan)
pun, Ost. 7, 1959, Hackensack, N.J

FREDERICK HERMAN KRECH became a member of the bar in

1948. He was a specialist in real estate titles, treasurer of McCullough
Abstract Company and a member of the New Jersey Bar Asso-

ciation. During World War II he served with the Coast Artillery.
He was survived by his father and a sister.

[740 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HOWARD PAUL KRIEGER

 

HOME AppREss: 1148 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y. 10028.

OFFICE AppREss: 960 Park Ave., New York, N.Y. 10028.

PREPARED AT: James Madison High School, Brooklyn, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1941. DEGREES: $.B., Cum laude, 1940(41); Mo. (Long
Island Coll.), 1944.

MARRIED: Dorothy Terrace, July 31, 1953. CHILDREN: James, Nov. 24, 1956;
Nancy, Oct. 27, 1958.

occupation: Neurologist.

OFFICES HELD: Attending neurologist and head of department, Beth Israel Hos-
pital, since 1960; attending neurologist, Mt. Sinai Hospital, 1962, both New
York City.

MEMBER OF: American Neurological Association; American Physiological Asso-
ciation, American Academy of Neurology; New York Academy of Medi-
cine; Harvey Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Textbook, Basis of Clinical Neurology, co-authored with S.
Brock; forty-seven scientific papers in the fields of clinical neurology,
neurophysiology and neuroendocrinology.

TWENTY-FIVE years have seen me change from a medical student
to a husband, father, neurologist and neurophysiologist. This change
has been more or less continuous except for two tours of duty with
the Navy (World War II and Korean Conflict), a transient flirta-
tion with psychiatry and the welcome interruptions of the social life
in New York City where most of these twenty-five vears have been

spent.

[741]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

WILLIAM HENRY KRUSKAL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1227 E. syth St., Chicago, Ill. 60615.
OFFICE appress: Dept. of Statistics, University of Chicago, Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: New Rochelle High School, New Rochelle, N.Y.; Lincoln School
of Teachers College, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1938-1940. DEGREES: S.B., summa cum laude, 1940; A.M., 1941;
pH. (Columbia Univ.), 1955.

MARRIED: Norma Jane Evans, Aug. 23, 1942. CHILDREN: Vincent Joseph, July
22, 1943; Thomas Evan, Aug. 26, 1947; Jonas David, March 8, 1955.

HARVARD SON: Thomas Evan Kruskal, ’68.

occuparion: Professor of statistics.

MEMBER OF: Assorted professional societies.

PUBLICATIONS: Primarily articles in statistics journals.

AFTER graduation I returned to Harvard for an A.M. Then fol-
lowed a period of mathematical and statistical work at the then-
called Naval Proving Ground, After the war, I spent two years in
a family business and then decided to study statistics at Columbia.
Two years there were followed by an appointment at the University

of Chicago, where I have since been leading a conventionally busy
and happy academic life.

[ 742 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE STANLEY KURLAND

 

HOME appreEss: 450 Dedham St., Newton Centre 59, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 330 Brookline Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940; MD., cum
laude, 1943.

MarriED: Bernice C, Johnson, Nov. 30, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Physician, assistant clinical professor of medicine, Harvard Medi-
cal School; visiting physician and chief of Cardiac Clinic, Beth Israel Hos-
pital, Boston.

OFFICES HELD: President-elect, Boston Chapter, Massachusetts Heart Association.

MY life has changed little from our Report of five years ago. I
continue to teach at the hospital, to practise medicine and to suffer
the frustrations of clinical investigation.

As the years have passed, the energetic young man of the forties
has gradually and imperceptibly become a senior figure of the sixties.
I never cease to wonder how little my vision of myself has changed
over these years and how much it has come to diverge from the
harsh reality of the view of my juniors. How strange it feels to be
the voice of experience, balance, restraint.

[ 743 ]

I

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

+ PETER PROKOS KUTRUBES

 

BoRN: July 3, 1917, Peabody, Mass, PARENTS: Prokos Peter Kutrubes, Katherine
Despines.

PREPARED AT: St, John’s Preparatory School, Danvers, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938, 1939-1940.

MarRIED: Mary Bichekas, April 27, 1947, Boston, Mass. CHILDREN: Kathryn
Susan, June 28, 1949; Linda Christine, June 16, 1959.
pieD: Oct. 25, 1963, Boston, Mass,

wipow: Mrs. Peter P. Kutrubes, 9 Bellevue Hill Rd., West Roxbury 32, Mass.

PETER PROKOS KUTRUBES was a chemical manufacturer and

ship owner. After college he spent four years in the Royal Air
Force before entering the chemical manufacturing field and was
a partner in the Greek Line. He was a former treasurer of the

Mercury Chemical Corporation in Boston. He was survived by
his wife.

ALBERT HENRY LABASTIE

   

HOME appress: 14 Indianhead Circle, Marblehead, Mass

[744]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: General Electric Co., 1000 Western Ave., Lynn, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass., New Pre-
paratory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LL.B. (Boston Coll.), 1948.

MARRIED: Betty Elaine Hill, April 22, 1946. CHILDREN: Craig Robert, Jan. 12,
1948, Cheryl Jeanne, Nov. 25, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Jet engine design and production, manager of evaluation stand-
ards, General Electric Company.

OFFICES HELD: Troop Committee chairman, Troop 35, Boy Scouts, 1940-42;
vice commander, Flotilla 407, U.S. Coast Guard Reserve, 1942-46; General
Electric representative on U.S. Navy Coordinating Committee on Air-
craft Generator Altitude Rating, 1948-50; secretary, G.E. Heat Transfer
Committee, 1949-51; member, Recreation Committee, Corinthian Yacht
Club, 1961-65; representative, Social Action Committee, Old North Church,
1963-65.

MEMBER OF: Former member, Harvard Varsity Club, ASME and U.S. Power
Squadron; Belmont Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Corinthian Yacht Club, Marble-
head, Mass.

PUBLICATIONS: “Flow Properties of Lubricants under High Pressure,” ASME —
Transactions, October, 1941; “New Air Cleaner Fan for Inverters,” Motor
Notes, May, 1950; “Generators for Tomorrow’s Planes,” Aviation Age,
February, 1955; six patents issued from 1951 to 1962 — from commutators
and special generators to jet engine combustor.

CONTRARY to the thinking of some educators that the Bachelor's
degree is for general culture and learning and that a graduate degree
is needed for a profession, I had taken all the engineering courses
I could to earn my A.B. in engineering sciences. Apparently the
General Electric Company in Lynn, Massachusetts, agreed and put
me on their payroll a couple of months after graduation, and they’ve
stuck with me ever since. I started as a mechanical engineer in
steam turbines and after the war switched to motors, then from
motors to aircraft generators, and from aircraft generators to jet
engines. It is remarkable that in this day of restless moving around
all my jobs were at the same plant location. This notwithstanding
the diversified field of work. Company business, however, has sent
me all over the country, where I did my small part in making our
equipment function the way it should.

My first and continuing love is doing advanced design work with
which I have had a certain success and for which I was lucky to
receive a number of patents. One of these contributes to the genera-
tion of electrical power in pullman cars and another creates power
for jet aircraft.

During the war I joined the Coast Guard Reserve in Boston and
spent all my spare time patrolling the harbor looking for possible

[ 745 ]

Se

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

sabotage, fire, unauthorized traffic, and guiding shipping into the
harbor. Our floullas were organized similar to the famous British
craft which participated in the Dunkirk rescue operations. We
commandeered suitable boats, mostly pleasure cruisers, added pot-
bellied stoves with hor water radiators. Wee staffed them with vol-
unteer crews of four men each and patrolled around the clock. As
vice-commander of our flotilla, I received an ensign’s commission
which I held until the end of the European war. Many famous
people did their stint in the auxiliary reserve. Our flotilla had
Arthur Fiedler, associate conductor of the Boston Symphony Or-
chestra, patrolling for a while.

Watching our two kids grow has been like watching time-lapse
photography. Yesterday, sixteen years ago, Craig was born and
another yesterday, fourteen years ago, Chery] came aboard. Needless
to say, their schedule at and away from school is full of the usual
teen-age activities except that the tempo is geared a little higher than
in our school days because of the acceleration of travel time — by
virtue of their mother’s taxi service. My old tarnished college fenc-
ing medals have been crowded to one side of the playroom mantel
by Betty’s bowling cups, Cheryl's swimming statues, and Craig’s
tennis and track trophies. It’s extraordinary how much more mag-
nificent my wife’s bowling league cups are than the little medal I
won for Harvard’s fencing team winning the Pentagonal foil
championship.

If every place in the world were to have its raison a’ étre, Mar-
blehead’s would be the summer season. It has the most beautiful yacht-
ing harbor in the world. Two twelve-meter yachts were built by
local yards — the Easterner and the Nefertiti. The best racing sails
in the world are made here. It has soft beaches as well as rugged
rocky shores. Perched on some of these rocks commanding the
entrance to the harbor is the Corinthian Yacht Club. Our family
enjoys its many facilities — yachting, swimming, tennis, dining,
dancing, and outdoor Sunday night movies. When not at the club,
we cruise around the local waters and down to Cape Cod in our
outboard cruiser, At home, we swim and socialize as well as putter
with the landscaping. Occasionally, we undertake special projects

like fortifying our stone walls which hold the back yard from sifting
into the tidal waters.

Our winter hobbies include several weekend excursions to ski

country and also the usual participation in business and comimunity
events.

[746 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

At this particular milestone, I think of a bit of philosophy by
Francis Bacon, “If a man will begin with certainties he shall end in
doubts; but if he will begin with doubts he shall end in certainties.”
At graduation many of us sense a tremendous desire to make a sub-
stantial contribution to society, but we start with considerable un-
certainty as to how to go about it. I thought I would like to be an
engineer but had never even been close to an engineering office
before I started work in one. Over the years, I learned that the wav
to bring forth a good design is to have a lot of doubts and make a
lot of tries. Then by a process of “failing-forward” the light dawns
and the design solidifies.

This brings me to what I think is a shortcoming in our educational
process. Educators are missing the boat in not recognizing a certain
talent in their college admission requirements. This omission is the
very important but constantly ignored quality of creative ability.
Many students possessing this quality may be overlooked because
of the lack of a measure for this trait. But, let’s face it, in this age
of regimentation and trend towards government control of almost
everything, future generations might be less ambitious and less
individualistic than before. The recognition of creative ability bv
colleges, however, would do much to stimulate independent thought
in our future citizens.

JOHN ARTHUR LAHMER

 

HOME AppREsS: 6800 Mannheim-Kafertal, 4 Taylor Strasse, Germany.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Hqtrs.. CENTAG, APO 403, New York, N.Y. "
PREPARED AT: University City High School, University City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B., 1940. "

[ 747 ]

ee etenneennenennenetesnnnseninientananaenaeatt gO

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

maanieD: Elaine Dearborn, Nov. 9, 1940, Cambridge, Mass. cHiLorEN: Joan
Dearborn, Dec, 12, 1948; Leslie Elaine, July 4, 1954.
occupation: Lieutenant colonel, US. Army.

HAVING decided during college years that | wished to be a profes-
sional Army officer, I have followed this course, Currently, I am
with Headquarters, Central Army Group (NATO) located in
Seckenheim (just south and east of Mannheim), Germany. Barring
unforeseen circumstances, we should be here until the latter portion
of 1966.

All in all, since W orld War Il, the U.S. Army has given my
family and me a good life. Financial rewards have not been great,
but we have had the good fortune to be together a majority of
the time. My wife and ‘L, and latterly our two “daughters, have been
stationed in ‘Japan, Hawaii and recently i in West Germany. They
did not accompany me to Korea. We have, as well, been in a
number of places in the United States. I] have had three tours of
duty, totalling about nine years and three months, in the Washing-
ton, D.C., area.

As to the future (and if the statesmen, first of all, and we pro-
fessional military men do our duty, there should be onc) following
probably one more tour of duty “after this one, we hope to retire
to Florida and spend the time finishing our girls’ education and
enjoying the beach life.

JAMES HOWARD LAKEMAN

 

MAILING appress: 4113 Sprucll Drive, Kensington, Md,

[ 748 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY RF PORT

+ GEORGE THOMAS LAND

 

BoRN: July 17, 1919, New York, N.Y. parents: George Albright Land, Erma
Lindsay.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cu7 laude, 1940.

DIED: May 29, 1944, at Fort Bragg, N.C.

AFTER graduation Land worked for the Newton Trust Company
and the Massachusetts Bonding & Insurance Company before enter-
ing the service. He attended Officers Candidate School and was
commissioned in November, 1942, and ordered to duty at Camp
Bowie, Texas. He was promoted to first lieutenant in May, 1943,
and assumed command of a newly activated battery. He was killed
in an accident at Fort Bragg, North Carolina. He was survived by
his parents.

IRVING WILLIAM LANDE

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 256 Ward St, Newton Center, Afass. 02149,

[ 749 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

FRANCIS ROBERT LANE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Temple Rd., Wellesley 81, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 319 Longwood Ave., Boston 15, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, Cut laude, 1940; M.D., 1943.

MarriED: Edith Lent, Sept. 4, 1943. CHILDREN: Francis Robert, Jr., May 24,
1944; Karen E., Aug. 11, 1945; Frederick C., Aug. 28, 1949.
occupation: Obstetrician and gynecologist.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor in obstetrics and gynecology, Harvard Medical
School; gynecologist and obstetrician at Boston Lying-In Hospital, Bos-

ton, Faulkner Hospital, Mt. Auburn Hospital, assistant surgeon, Free
Hospital for Women, Brookline.

EMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; American Board of Obstetrics and Gy-
necology (diplomate); Boston Obstetrical Society, Massachusetts Medical

Society; American Medical Association; American College of Obstetricians
and Gynecologists.

UBLICATIONS: “Uterine Dehiscence; Once a Caesarian Section Always a Cae-
sarean Section?” American Journal of Obstetrics and Gynecology, 1953:

HE past twenty-five years have been very good to me. Edith,

¢ three children and I have enjoyed good health, and the two

dest children have done well enough in school to be upper class

idents at Hobart College and Connecticut College for Women.

ne youngest child, who is taller than but not as heavy as his dad, is
the third class (sophomore) at the Roxbury Latin School. Thus
> usual worries about our children’s getting into, and staying in,
lege seem to have evaporated.

After graduating from medical school 1 completed almost six
rs of postgraduate training in surgery, obstetrics and gynecology:
‘as fortunate enough to be a Rockefeller Fellow for the last four
rs of that time, which was a real honor and financial help. I

[750 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

spent two years in the Army, mostly in the continental U.S., but
was in Panama for eight months.

I began practice in Boston in July, 1950, becoming associated
with the finest gynecologic and obstetrical group in the city, My
practice has grown and now I have a fine practice and try not to
take on so many patients that I cannot give them first class care.
It is about equally divided between obstetrics and gynecology. To
see one’s practice, income, and the enjoyment of practicing grow
has been very rewarding. How long medicine will offer these
satisfactions is somewhat in doubt, for the days of personal re-
sponsibility of the physician to the patient with the associated
pleasures, heartaches, worries, and satisfactions would seem to be
limited. Institutionalization of medicine, whether by government,
or by another third party such as insurance companies or various
medical adjunctive bodies, is increasing. This, I believe, leads to
higher cost care, less personal care, and less good care. Sharing of
responsibility for patient care inevitably leads to avoidance of
responsibility.

I should be foolhardy to think that medicine will avoid socialism,
or institutionalization. The people desire, apparently, some form of
prepaid care. “Medicare” as proposed by the present administration
almost certainly will be enacted. It will be but the first step toward
completely government paid-for medical care. It will be very
expensive, and very impersonal, and very inefficient. Who can
deny that the last sentence can be applied to almost every govern-
ment agency?

For my non-medical colleagues, of course, this is an old story.
The business world has seen the price of steel] removed from the
market-place by presidential threat, and the price of money de-
termined by presidential persuasion. And our business leaders, with
few exceptions, have complied. The power of decision, in large
measure, has been taken away from the economic and_ business
world, and without too much of a struggle. It would be unwise to
think that the medical profession will, in the long run, be any more
jealous of its liberties or fight any more vigorously for them. So-
cialism is making real progress, whether it be in the business world,
in the professions, or in the fields of education.

Our only real hope to slow down this engulfing tide is in our
youth, I am increasingly impressed with their aims and ideals, and
confident of their ability to make the government and its agencies
serve the people rather than the reverse. They are less materialistic

[751]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

than their predecessors; of this there can be no doubt. They seem
to be more religious, more studious, more perceptive and conscious
of the rights and needs of their fellows. The events of the past
few years make this obvious. With socialism or capitalism (and
neither is a “dirty” word in my book), the fate of our country is
secure in our young people. Our generation need not worry about
the aims of our young. We should strive to encourage them in
their efforts, not to impede them.

So I look forward to the years ahead with confidence. I have
had a better life than | had ever hoped for in 1940. My family, my
profession, and my friendships have been a source of increasing
pleasure and satisfaction. And the longer I live the more I appreciate
the greatness of Harvard College and the University as a whole.
My association with the University since 1940 has been a con-

tinuing and increasing source of pleasure and gratification to me
and to my family. May it continue for as long as I live.

STEPHEN LANGFORD

 

HOME appress: 118 Venetian Blvd., Lindenhurst, Long Island, N-Y.

OFFICE appRESS: Lindenhurst Public Schools, 141 School St., Lindenhurst, N.Y
PREPARED AT: Fort Myers High School, Fort Myers, Fla.

‘YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; a.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1950
Marartep: Laura P. Strang, June 5, 1943. cHitp: Charles Parmelee, Dec. 26, 1948:
occupation: Director of Community Service; school and community relations;

selling ten million dollars worth of education to this school district every
year.

orrices HELD: Member, U.S. Board of Civil Service Examiners, Fifth District,
1945-48, Common Council, Shanks Village, Orangeburg, N.Y., 1948-50,
Louisville (Ky.) Council, Boy Scouts of America, 1946-48, Lindenhurst
member, House of Delegates, New York State Teachers Association, 19523

{752 ]

re

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

vice-president, Lindenhurst Parent-Teachers Association, 1950-53, mem-
ber, board of trustees, Suffolk County Clinic for the Mentally Retarded,
1960-63, Suffolk County Division, American Cancer Society, since 1959;
camp supervisor, Hither Hills State Park, Montauk, New York, since 1950.

MEMBER OF: Boy Scouts of America (sustaining member); Long Island Har-
vard Club; National Education Association; National School and Com-
munity Relations Association; New York State Teachers Association,
Lindenhurst Lions Club; New York State Congress of Parents and
Teachers (honorary life member); Lindenhurst Teachers Association;
Suffolk County Fish and Game Association, Evangelism Committee, St.
Boniface Episcopal Church, Lindenhurst, N.Y.; International Graphic Arts
Society; Lindenhurst Chamber of Commerce, Mouseketeers (business and
professional men campers) ; Sigma Alpha Epsilon.

PuBLicaTIONS: Numerous press releases on education, community problems and
some art criticism.

EVERYBODY knows the troubles I have seen the past twenty-
five years: prose corrupted into an arena for exhibitionistic per-
version, poetry immured in the dungeons of the New Criticism,
music composed by mechanical chance; tin can labels accepted as
painting; architecture flayed to cigar-box simplicity; Goldwater
nominated for President; Red China producing its own bomb, the
astrophysicists playing last-one-to-the-moon-is-a-rotten-egg; and the
biochemists ready to create God in a petri dish any day now.

Frankly, I am appalled at my reactions to it all: 1 Uke it! There
is indeed much to be deplored in civilization today, but Old Time
continues to smuggle into my consciousness little shreds of convic-
tion that through this miasma runs the road to the ultimate Veritas.
There has not been a foot of the way thus far that I have not been
assailed by bundles of doubts that my concentration in comparative
languages and literature has been and is the poorest possible vade
mecum; on the other hand, there has not been a day since I left
Harvard that I had the faintest notion of any other preparation that
could have served me better. .

Before I had finished the first semester in high school, I had re-
solved to be a high school English teacher. I left Harvard with the
same conviction. Of course, my first classroom stint was teaching
algebra at the Hill School. Fortunately, the Selective Service Act
and World War II bailed me out. From a certain myopic point
of view, my War Years (three of them) should have been a chronicle
of dazzling successes. I did not lack training; I completed nine
different specialized training courses, including a year at Yale in
language and area studies (Mediterranean/Italian) on ASTP. I

[753 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1 940

DAVID COLLIE LANGWORTHY

 

HOME appress: 709 Righters Mull Rd., Narberth, Pa. 19072.

OFFICE apprEss: Magnetic Metals Co, Hayes Avenue at 21st Street, Camden l,
NJ.

2REPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

“EARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

4arriED: Norma Jane Shea, July 11, 1943. CHiLpReN: Collie Shea, Aug. 25,
1946; Leslie Jane, July 20, 1951; Wilson Burton, March 26, 1955; Keith
Charles, Oct. 2, 1956.

scuPATION: President, electrical component manufacturing firm.
FICES HELD: Trustee and member executive committee, South Jersey Medical
Research Foundation, since 1954; director, Camden Trust Company, since

1956; member, board of managers, Main Line YMCA, 1959-62; member,
IEEE, since 1959.

MBER OF: Merion Cricket Club; Philadelphia Skaung Club and Humane
Society; Little Egg Harbor Yacht Club; Cat Cay Club.

ications: U.S. Patent No. 2,860, 328, Shield for Cathode Ray Tubes and
Process of Making the Same, Nov. 11, 1958.

HILE my early plans for a career in the arts were dashed by
rid War II, my present work is extremely challenging and, with-
a doubt, far more rewarding in the material way. My greatest
overy has been my wife and my only significant contribution
re world, my four children. I find time to sail and fish a bit and,
uieter moments, to read and listen to music.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROGER DEARBORN LAPHAM, JR.

 

HOME AppRESS: 2233 Lyon St., San Francisco 15, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 255 California St., San Francisco 11, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

Marriep: Nancy H. Scott, Oct. 4, 1941. CHILDREN: Antoinette D., July 4,
1942; Jerd A. Aug. 1, 1944; Nicholas S., July 23, 1947; Norma P., June
27, 1949.

occupation: President and director, Alexander, Sexton & Carr of California,
insurance brokerage firm.

OFFICES HELD: Member, County Republican Central Committee, since 1950;
president, San Francisco Planning Commission, 1956-60; director, San Fran-
cisco Chamber of Commerce, 1956-58; regent, University of San Fran-
cisco; campaign chairman, United Negro Colleges Fund, 1963, Children’s
Hospital Development Program, 1963; general chairman, United Bay
Area Crusade, 1964; director, Bay Area Rapid Transit District; Safeway
Stores, Inc., Alexander, Sexton & Carr, Inc., Varner-Ward Leasing Com-
pany, Delcorp, Inc., Market-Turk Company.

MEMBER OF: Pacific Union Club; Bohemian Club; San Francisco Golf Club;
Burlingame Country Club; Cypress Point Club; Portland Club (London);
The Links (New York); Phoenix SK Club.

FOR eighteen long years I have primarily traveled the road of an
insurance broker, but exploring many byroads that have taken me
into such diverse fields as Chinese restaurants, professional football
and baseball, water-flood projects, motel operations, automobile
leasing, a race track, the floor covering industry, and a muluplicity
of real estate ventures, large and small.

There have also been excursions into the paths of politics, public
service, trade associations and philanthropic fund raising, all of which
have helped keep life reasonably interesting, with time occupied.

I am most fortunate to have the same wife I started out with,

[757 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

four children in varying stages of development, and an almost-
friendly bank with an adequate legal limit.

When not otherwise engaged, I can usually be found at the bridge
table or on the golf course; hoping more for success at the former
than the latter. Such time as is left over is spent at ball games, the
opera or trying to find a local painter who will outsell Cézanne
within ten years.

My strongest conviction from a social viewpoint is that the more
one enjoys the blessings of this life, the greater is his responsibility
to his community.

Politically, I am sick at heart. We were faced with the sorriest
choice of the century in 1964, in my opinion, and probably got only
what we deserved. Power is today’s criterion in the political arena.
The only people who seem to have the courage of their convictions
are the mavericks, and they have some mighty peculiar convictions.

Despite all of this, 1 remain optimistic on a short-range basis, and
hope we can find in the time remaining to us a solution to the prob-
lems that have led to the incredible hatreds around us. I hope, at

least, our Twenty-fifth Reunion Class Day won't again witness the
fall of Paris.

EDWARD BENJAMIN LARNER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 247 S. Main Ave. Albany, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: Larner Coal & Oil Co., Inc., 24 Bassett St., Albany, N.Y
preparep aT: Albany Academy, Albany, N.Y, "
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

marriep: Shirley A. Atkin, Sept. 22, 1945. CHILDREN: Mark, N

Lucy, Feb. 22, 1954; Andrea, March 11, 1957, PINOY By 19585
HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Charles Larner, "37 (deceased),

[758 ]

sgn as Ba 9 Beg Fe EE RTE
pe tots temdnat tN ES

«a tnt hanced ibe?
tae bi A AEE ROM

ecient CAE TE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Retail coal and fuel oil sales.

OFFICES HELD: President, 1959, member, board of directors, Jewish Home for
the Aged.
MEMBER OF: Colonie Country Club of Albany.

AFTER graduation I entered the family fuel business in Albany and
remained in it until enlisting in the Army in the fall of 1942. After
commissioning as second lieutenant, Ordnance, there were various —
assignments in the United States and ETO, promotion to first lieuten-
ant and separation from the service in 1946. Meanwhile I had mar-
ried Shirley A. Atkin of Albany. I returned to the fuel business
and have been actively engaged in its management to the present
time.

My principal non-business activity has been with the Jewish
Home for the Aged where I have served as an officer and director
since 1949. My political preferences have been Republican, both
nationally and locally, unul this year when I considered Goldwater
completely unsuited for the presidency.

My three children are at school locally with no plans yet made
for their higher education. My son still has several years ahead of
him before deciding on college; hopefully at that time it will be
Harvard.

++ FRANCIS BACON LATADY

 

BORN: Dec. 5, 1915, Birmingham, Ala. parents: Francis Bacon Latady, Mar-
garet Robertson.

PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

MARRIED: Joan Pushee,

pieD: Killed in action, May 13, 1944, on Corsica.

[759 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940
FRANCIS BACON LATADY spent a year with our Class. He was
associated with the Baptiste School of Dancing when he enlisted in
the Air Forces in February, r9qg1. After graduation from a bomber
school in California, he went overseas and served as an instrument
specialist, with the rank of sergeant technician, in North Africa,
Sicily, Italy and Corsica. He had been serving as a crew chief

with a bombing squadron on the Italian front a few months pre-
ceding his death. He was survived by his wife.

VAUGHAN MILTON LATHAM

 

HOME Appress: 59 Berwick St. Worcester, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 470 Main St., Ficchburg, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; A.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1944
MARRIED: Eleanor R. Earthrowl, July 20, 1946. CHILDREN: Rebecca Ann,

March 16, 1948; Carol Joan, Feb. 5, 1950; Jennifer, June 3, 1951; Vaughan
Milton, Jr., Sept. 24, 1954.

occupation: Registered representative, member firm of New York Exchange,
Townsend, Dabney & Tyson.

;
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Worcester; University Club of Worcester.

FOLLOWING graduation my first position was with a savings
bank where I did a stint as a teller, After two years, feeling the
desire for more academic life, I attended Columbia University doing 5
graduate work in English literature with the intention of teaching, :
which I later did rather briefly. During the latter part of the war
1 worked in an office position in a defense industry in Worcester.

The following years brought a longer stay in a bank. In 1946 I
was fortunate to marry a fine girl, Vassar clays of 1945. Since

[ 760 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1950 I have been in the investment business, a field which is chal-
lenging.

Our family keeps us busy with diverse interests. Our eldest
daughter, Becky, is at Dana Hall; Carol and Jennifer in junior high
and Vaughan, Jr., in elementary school in Worcester. My wife is
busy with community activities and part-time teaching. All too
quickly we find our children approaching the now more exciting
task of college entrance.

CHRISTIAN MARIUS LAURITZEN, II

!
:
i

 

HOME AppRESS: 2239 N. Cleveland Ave., Chicago, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Norman, Engelhardt, Zimmerman, Franke & Lauritzen, 100 W.
Monroe St., Chicago 3, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Chicago Latin School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., C27 laude, 1940; LL.B. 1943.

MarRIED: Cynthia Grace Corning, Dec. 2, 1955.

occupation: Lawyer — partner — head of tax department.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman and director, Trust Law Division, Section of
Real Property, Probate and Trust Law, American Bar Association; mem-
ber, Section of Taxation, Illinois and Chicago Bar Associations; fellow,
American College of Probate Counsel; editor, Tax Counselors Quarterly,
secretary and director, ABC Managers, Ltd., and ABC Advisors, Ltds
vice-chairman and director, Gilchrist Vending, Ltd.; assistant secretary
and treasurer, N. Marshall Seeburg & Sons, Inc.; director, 52 Association
(Chicago Chapter).

MEMBER OF: Chicago Club; Saddle and Cycle Club; Lake Geneva Country
Club; Harvard Clubs of New York and Chicago; Legal Club of Chicago.

PusLicaTions: Author of numerous Law Review articles, including “Perpetui-
ties and Pension Trusts,” “Only God Can Make an Heir,” “Common Disas-
ter Can Mean Tax Disaster,” “Super Support Trusts,” “On Understand-
ing the Income Taxation of Trusts and Estates,” “Marital Deduction Be-
quests —~ Current Problems and Drafting Suggestions,” etc.

[761 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

IT seems unbelievable that nearly twenty-five years have passed
since we graduated on that hot June day; but the gray hairs are
glistening proof that the calendar is not in error.

After graduation, I went to the Law School, graduating in 1943.
None of the armed services would have me, so I went back to
Chicago, struggled past the bar exam and began the actual practice
of my profession as the most junior associate of one of the large
LaSalle Street firms. After three years, I joined a small office special-
izing in Federal tax matters. Some years later, I joined my present
firm, in which I] am now one of the senior partners (which means |
worry more about those new tax laws).

On December 2, 1955, I married Cynthia Grace Corning of Win-
netka, Illinois. We have no children, but our time and energy are
quite fully absorbed in our dogs. Our male Pembroke Welsh Corgi
(Cynchrist Erik the Red) just recently completed his American
championship. In October we purchased another Pembroke Welsh
Corgi, the English Champion, Costom’s Cherokee of Wey. She has
won four firsts (three times Best of Breed) and needs only two more
points to complete her American championship. Our youngest dog,
Windale’s Kristina of Cynchrist, is a six-month-old puppy, but being
an Irish wolfhound, she is by far the biggest. Since we cannot
squeeze three dogs and two people into our Corvette, we have just
purchased a station wagon. Now we can take all the dogs up to our
country place at Lake Geneva for the weekends.

Along with the regular practice of law, I have found myself doing
quite a lot of writing for various law reviews. I am now editor of
the Tax Counselors Quarterly and find the task most stimulating.
I have also been active in the American Bar Association and, at
present, am vice-chairman of the Section of Real Property, Probate
and Trust Law. In consequence, I have had the privilege to become
a friend of many fine lawyers throughout our nation.

When we graduated in 1940, the world was a grim and gloomy
place. I cannot see that it is much less grim today. Some years ago,
at one of our Reunions, I said that the fall of China to the Com-
munists was the most important single event of our lifetime. I still
think that it was and that the consequences to western civilization
will be catastrophic. But, through the gloom, I hear once again the
noble call that we “would rather die on our feet than live on our

” ‘
knees.” I pray that in years to come, we can be worthy of those of
us who have already gone “across the river.”

[ 762 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM LAVERACK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 54 View St., Fitchburg, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 120 Prospect St., Fitchburg, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarrigD: Persis Elizabeth Gleason, Aug. 28, 1954. CHILDREN: William, Jr.,
March 29, 1957; Elizabeth, April 7, 1959; Thomas Gleason, Nov. 20, 1961.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Woodward Laverack, °37.

occupation: Education; headmaster, Applewild School.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, United Fund of Greater Fitchburg for 1965;
trustee, Burbank Hospital, since 1962, director, since 1959, president,
1962-64, Children’s Aid and Family Service; director, Fitchburg Savings
Bank, since 1962; clerk, Dampney Company of Hyde Park, Mass., since
1954; trustee, Applewild School, since 1957; member of corporation,
Nashoba Country Day School, Concord, Mass., since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Century Association; Fay Club of Fitchburg; Sorrento (Maine)
Yacht Club.

THE years since 1940 for me can be summarized very easily. The
world of independent school education has filled my working days,
with eleven years in Brookline, Massachusetts, six years in New
York City and the last eight years in Fitchburg. There seems to be
universal agreement as to the importance of education, and sufficient
disagreement about methods of accomplishing the same to keep
a person thoroughly involved. It is a very rewarding occupation.

The academic year has made it possible to spend a generous amount
of time with my family, with involvement in community affairs,
both winter and summer, and to indulge a deep interest in and
affection for the out-of-doors. The years have been very full and
very happy ones, May those that lie ahead be equally stimulating.

[ 763 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

DAVID BISSELL LAWRENCE

 

,1E ADDRESS: Conant Road, Lincoln, Mass.

Ice apprEss: Newton-Waltham Bank & Trust Co., 637 Main St. Waltham,
Mass.

*aRED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

25 IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B., C7 laude, 1940.

uiED: Priscilla Moore, June 27, 1942. CHILDREN: John S., May 29, 1943;

susan, Feb. 7, 1945; Martha, June 21, 1953.

ARD BROTHERS: Charles Henry Lawrence, 3d, ’36,; Edward Williams Law-

ence, 37; George Hugh Lawrence, '44, M.D., ’46.

ATION: Vice-president and personnel officer, Newton-Waltham Bank &

tust Company,

ER OF; Massachusetts Audubon Society.

IN I look back to graduation, to the beginning of my business
, and to Priscilla’s and my early married years, it is difficult
ept the fact that the intervening twenty-five years have flown
1 we now must account for what appeared to be, in 1940,
ost endless period of time to accomplish great things.
first seven years were spent in Providence, Rhode Island,
I received training in management at Brown & Sharpe Manu-
1¢ Company, and our first two children, John and Sue, were
There was little time for much else except an occasional
cruise.
ext seven years were spent in Nyack, New York, applying
ad learned about business management at Willcox & Gibbs
Machine Company. In 1954, shortly after our third child
vas born, we moved to the Boston area. For the past nine
have lived in Lincoln, Massachusetts, enjoying the delight-
ry, skting in the mountains in winter and sailing on the
ummer with our children.

[ 764 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

My business endeavors have been eventful as personnel director
for two different organizations: first at Vectron, Inc., in Waltham,
Massachusetts, which was merged with Itek; second at Baird Atomic
in Cambridge. Last April I joined the Newton-Waltham Bank &
Trust Company as vice-president and personnel] officer. This most
recent assignment is most interesting and challenging, helping to
expand and develop the management of a growing suburban bank.

Our two older children have begun to experience the competitive
world on their own — John in the Air Force and Sue at college.
Our recreational interest and activities recently have centered more
and more around our nation’s natural resources and their preserva-
tion.

THOMAS ELDREDGE LAWRENCE

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Woods Hole Rd., Woods Hole, Mass.

[ 765 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

JULIAN LAZRUS

 

HOME ApprEss: 40 Fern Drive, Roslyn, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE appRESs: Benrus Watch Co., Inc., 50 W. 44th St., New York, N.Y,
REPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

rarRieD: Miriam Roback, Dec. 23, 1942. CHILDREN: Deborah, Oct. 7, 1946,

Judith, March 5, 1949; Sarah Jane, May 10, 1951.

.RVARD BROTHER: Jay Kay Lazrus, '44.

cUPATION: President, Benrus Watch Company, Inc.

“ICES HELD: Director, since 1948, president, 1950-53, Bronx House; director,
National Jewish Welfare Board, 1955-64; director, since 1953, vice-presi-
dent, 1953-57, treasurer, 1957-60, Metropolitan Section, National Jewish
Welfare Board; trustee, National Conference of Christians and Jews, since
1960; director, since 1960, vice-president, since 1962, American Watch
Association; member, State Small Business Advisory Council for New

York, since 1962; chairman, Functional Committee on Community Cen-

rers of the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of the City of New York,

953-57:

BER OF: Advertising Club, New York City.

ER graduation, a year at the Business Schoo] and ten months
e Benrus factory in Waterbury, Connccticut, led to three and
ualf years of military service which I left as a first lieutenant,
ance, Army.

€ most significant moment in my life was December 23, 1942,
verdeen Proving Grounds, Maryland, when I married and

my most important career as husband and, later, father of
daughters,

decision in January, 1946, to re-enter the family business,
ise, established my work-day life from then to now. From
9 1959, working within the scope of the watch business was
ough. I had the time, energy and inclination to follow a

[ 766 ]

AAO? Sip NTA ARP TATOO FE mT: He esas 2 OILS A ABAE | NP. EE TCP SAREE Te SPSL SE ON NRE mt ain ane

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

course I had started at Harvard with Phillips Brooks House, and I
became interested in Bronx House, a Community Center in a dis-
advantaged area in the Bronx in New York City. This I enjoyed
very much. I was fortunate enough to be president of Bronx House
for three years in the early ’s5o’s and to take part in its erection of
a new building in another area. This work in turn led to my chair-
manship of the Functional Committee on Community Centers of
the Federation of Jewish Philanthropies of New York and the
planning for the future growth of Federation Community Centers
in the metropolitan area.

Perhaps of all the work I have done, J am proudest that today,
some eight years later, much that was blueprinted then has actually
come into being. And, of course, from the local scene, my interests
spread to the National Jewish Welfare Board where I worked hard
for several years. To me the most important thing was that these
were not just affiliations but work situations where I could create
and achieve results.

However, in 1959, a change in the business situation resulted in
my becoming president of Benrus in May, 1960. Since then, I have
had practically no time for outside activities, and whatever creative
drive I may have, has been given to the direction of the business.
We have, in fact, made many major changes in the past four and
one-half years, with more still to come.

My only regret is that time has moved so fast and I have not
been able to do as much as I would have liked. Either I did not
judge my own capabilities well enough or I was too impatient. How-
ever, I believe the goals I originally outlined are achievable and so
I have at least a few more years of hard work before I can divert
myself from this effort.

Meanwhile, my family has been growing up too rapidly. My eld-
est daughter is now at Goucher College. The walls of my office are
hung with paintings she has done, but she is studying biology as
a preliminary to becoming a veterinarian (when she is not dating
some guitar-playing Romeo). My middle daughter is dark like me
but through some alchemy is also beautiful, and while her high
school marks need some occasional explanation, she makes lovely
music on violin, viola, mandolin, piano and recorder. The youngest
who, like the eldest, has her mother’s good looks is still unformed.
Like many “youngest” she wants perhaps to remain the baby and
so she is the softest and sweetest, but I worry about her lack of
will to achieve.

[ 767 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

I am one of the fortunate ones who is still in love with his boy-
hood sweetheart. I met Mimi at Radcliffe at the end of freshman
vear and can scarcely imagine what life would be like without her,

I can only comment that “for me the good life has been made by

a good w ife. I need this sense of comfort since I have a great inner
unrest to get things done. I feel I still have a lot of nagging curiosity
and sull have the bad habit of turning things over to see what's
underneath.

Mv work during the past five years has taken me to other countries
where I have had a chance to observe how very much alike all the
world really is. I have had to do a great deal of work in the political
arena in W ashington where I have been gratefully surprised to note
that our democracy functions surprisingly well.

Life has been good to me and I have enjoyed it. I like walking,
boating and fishing, more for the quiet and the admiration of the
outdoors than for “action” and have passed through the various
phases from a light twelve-footer with an outboard to a thirty-one-
footer with a fiying bridge and back again as well as from still
fishing to fly fishing and back again.

I believe more strongly than ever in government of, by, and for
the people and so have been politically a liberal Democrat. But I
cannot agree that we should polarize our parties into Labor and
Tory as they have in England. There is no need to be like the frog
in the well. I think the country can always move forward and
that what will be, will be better than what has been.

1 would like my children to add something to society through
their own creativity —the field is not so important as the use of
what talent they may have. I believe they will be happier so.

As for the next few years for myself, 1 would like to feel that the
creative process can be applied to business as well as to any art.
Now it is a question of whether I have the talent.

“The world is so full of a number of things, I’m sure we should
all be as happy as Kings.”

[ 768 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MAIMON LEAVITT

 

HOME AppreEss: 210 Woodruff Ave., Los Angeles 24, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 450 N. Bedford Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Townsend Harris Hall Preparatory School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1938-1940. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1940, M.p. (New York
Univ.), 1943.

MARRIED: Peggy Juliet Berne, May 19, 1943. CHILDREN: Richard Matthew, July
29, 1946, Andrew Morton, May 13, 1948, Jane Emily and Susan Judith

- (twins), July 12, 1952.

occupaTION: Psychoanalyst; primarily private practice with part-time teaching.

OFFICES HELD: Faculty member, since 1959, trustee and secretary, since 1962,
Los Angeles Institute for Psychoanalysis; vice-president, Los Angeles
Psychoanalytic Society, 1964-65; assistant professor, University of Cali-
fornia at Los Angeles, since 1959; consultant, Camarillo Hospital and Los
Angeles Psychiatric Service.

MEMBER OF: American Psychoanalytic Association; American Psychiatric As-
sociation; American Board of Psychiatry and Neurology; National Board
of Medical Examiners; American Orthopsychiatric Association, California
Medical Association; Southern California Psychiatric Society; Los Angeles
County Medical Association; Los Angeles Psychoanalytic Society; Los
Angeles Institute for Psychoanalysis, American Association for the Ad-
vancement of Science; Sierra Club; American Civil Liberties Union; Bene-
dict Tennis Club; Rhodes Yacht Association.

FOLLOWING graduation, went on to medical school in New York
City. Married Peggy Berne, Smith graduate, editorial and radio
writer, and childhood friend. Following graduation, interned at
Michael Reese Hospital, Chicago, then residency in neurology at
Goldwater Memorial Hospital, New York. Continued our westward
migration to the Menninger Clinic, Topeka, Kansas, where I began
psychiatric and psychoanalytic training and where we staved five
years. A very interesting and fruitful period, professionally and
personally, during which our two sons were born. After serving on

[ 769 |

ee

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

the staff at the Menninger Foundation and the Winter V.A. Hos-
pital for several vears, we decided to head west once more to enter
private practice. We were no sooner well settled in Berkeley,
California, in 1950, when the police action in Korea began. We re.
turned to the Midwest again where, as a major, I served as chief,
Mental Hygiene Consultation Service and Psychiatric Service Sta-
tion Hospital, Camp Breckenridge, Kentucky. During this period,
our twin daughters were born. We then returned to California,
which had more than measured up to our expectations, and settled
in Los Angeles, where we have remained happily since. I have con-
unued my practice, teaching and research interests and have been
active in the psychoanalytic professional organizations,

Like most physicians, professional activities have tended to occupy
perhaps too large a part of my life. But one of the special attrac-
tions of the West has been the land itself, and we have spent a
great deal of time camping, back-packing, rafting, climbing and
fold-boating through much of it; in the course of my developing
appreciation of the country, I have become increasingly interested
in conservation of natural as well as human resources. Sailing, skiing
and tennis round out the more regular outdoor activities. This is
still country on the grand scale and of infinite variety, with yet
some primitive areas intact — until I disrupt them with a soprano
recorder. I have been fortunate that these activities have interested
my family as well, so that we have been able to enjoy them, together
with our mutual satisfactions in one another. My wife has her in-
terests of the usual sort, but additionally has been quite active with
several community organizations and most particularly with her
sculpture. Our older son is now a college freshman, which brings
us full circle.

In personal outlook and politics, I consider myself a liberal, but
as I reflect, in writing this, that so many of my viewpoints remain
consonant with those of college years, I wonder if that may not
be truly the sign of a conservative. At any rate, I feel that a complex
society requires appropriate and necessary controls to function
effectively for the individual and the group’s best interests, and
when these are combined with the decent primary regard for
individual liberties, a society can achieve the highest levels of
integration and realization, just as is the case for the individual
himself. It takes a nice balance, never achieved, but the flux of
creative, constructive adaptation is the very stuff of life itself.

[770]

oN

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE JOSEPH LEE

 

HOME appREss: 10 Edgewood Ave., New Haven, Conn.

OFFICE AppRESS: Yale University Art Gallery, t111 Chapel St. New Haven,
Conn. 06520.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., C472 laude, 1940; A.M., 1947.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Hartman Lee, ’37.

occupation: Museum work; curator of oriental art, Yale University Art Gal-
lery.

orrices ree: Staff member, Harvard Army Specialized Training Program and
Fogg Art Museum, 1942-45; Chinese government cultural fellow, Harvard
University, 1945-48; assistant curator of oriental art, Fogg Museum, Har-
vard University, 1948-49, curator of oriental art, Brooklyn Museum,
1949-59, Yale University Art Gallery, since 1959.

MEMBER OF: Chinese Art Society of America (board of governors); Oriental
Ceramic Society, London, Oriental Clubs of New York and New Haven.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in the usual scholarly journals (English and American),
in a variety of Museum Bulletins and in catalogues.

PERHAPS the only segment of twenty-five years which can be
condensed with ease is one’s career. Even the term has a blunt
simplicity, a sense of movement rather than of thought, an implica-
tion of achievement instead of the far more likely occurrence. Mine
divides neatly into three segments. The first, primarily at Harvard,
involves nine years in further study, the teaching of Army personnel
and general preparation for a museum existence. Then comes ten
years in New York at a large public institution, the Brooklyn
Museum. Finally a retreat to Academe, and the enemy camp, finds
me occupied in coping with oriental problems for the Yale Art
Gallery.

The great issues of our time seem mainly beyond my ken. The
choice between the materialism of the West and the totalitarianism

C770]

eRe

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

of the Fast, although an easy one to make, is essentially Hobsonian,
The type of civilization to which we are accustomed seems to have
been disintegrating for the past fifty years. Perhaps newer and
greater ones will take its place as in the ages of Rome.

Brief glimpses of such new worlds do not, however, bring re-
assurance to those interested in the arts. Neither the appreciation
of past achievements nor an adequate status for the creative artist
has been accomplished by our society. Indeed the increasing interest
in the arts seems to have produced intense vulgarization and mis-
placed commercialism. The apparent trends into the new worlds,
with increased dehumanization and depersonalization, bode further
difficulties for the artistic community.

No minor museum voice is going to affect such basic movements.
But in the words of a twentieth century poet:

For us the trying
The rest is not our business.

+ JAMES HENNEN LEGENDRE, JR.

 

BORN: May 2, 1918, New York, N.Y. parents: James Hennen Legendre, Ann
Lee Scort,

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939.

pied: Killed in action, April 8, 1945, in Germany.

IN July, 1941, Legendre entered the Army as a private, was soon
promoted to corporal, attended Officers Candidate School and was
commissioned in April, 1942. He was subsequently promoted to
first lieutenant and captain. In April, 1943, he went overseas and
served with the 645th Tank Destroyer Battalion, participating in
the invasions of Tunis, Salerno, Anzio and Southern France. He

[772 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

served with the Fifth Army until transferred to the Seventh Army
for the invasion of Southern France and was with the 45th Division
until his death. He was awarded the Legion of Merit. He was
survived by his mother.

CHESTER ARTHUR LEGG, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1608 Forest Pl, Fvanston, Il.

OFFICE appress: International Harvester Co., 180 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago 1,
Til.

PREPARED AT: Evanston High School, Evanston, Ill; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940,

MmarrigD: Barbara Hazard Mayes, Feb. 4, 1944. cHitp: Stephen Hazard, April
12, 1946.

occupation: Assistant divisional manager of sales, Wisconsin Steel Division,
International Harvester Company, full line of staff responsibilities in sale
of steel and related products.

oFFices HELD: Member, board of directors, Evanston Republican Club, 1952-60,
Evanston Red Cross, 1953-54; Republican ward chairman, Second Ward,
Evanston, 1952-60; ward chairman, United Fund, 1956.

MEMBER OF: Glen View Club; Ridge & Valley Tennis Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author, A Personnel Development & Training Manual,
Harvester Press (company use only).

WELL remembered is the day when I took a last walk in “The
Yard,” which under a warm June sun was hushed and peaceful.
That was June, 1940. One week later I stepped off a train in south-
western Ohio to begin to “learn steel.” For almost twenty-five years
steel has been my career — first with Armco Steel Corporation and
now with the Steel Division of International Harvester Company.

Nothing, seemingly, could have been further from the cadence of
“The Yard” and Harvard in general than this new environment

[773]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

with its grit and smoke, eight-hour days of labor, new industrial
language and new faces. When I look back on the classes in metal-
lurgy and the countless written reports on the “Art of Making
Steel, ” T realize now my education had just begun. For slightly more
than twenty months I worked at “the learning.”

In the late summer of 1941, | joined the Naval Air Corps. By
the summer of 1942 I had my “Wings” from Pensacola, Florida,
Naval Air Station and assignment to an Anti-Submarine Warfare
Squadron attached to the Atlantic Fleet. Most of my three years
active duty was spent in Anti-Submarine Warfare. Seventeen
hundred air hours later and as a lieutenant senior grade, I went
back to my work in steel, but now with a desire to make steel sales
my career. Thus, for almost twenty years in one sales capacity or
another, I have had the rewarding experience of doing that work
which gives me the greatest satisfaction.

In 1944 I prevailed upon one of Great Britain’s fair daughters to
change sides, leaving that land the poorer for the warmth and kind-
ness which she brought to this side and to me in our marriage. My
son, Stephen, is eighteen years old and a thoughtful and kindly
fellow in his first year of college and doing well.

The last twenty-five years have been fine, but I think of them
only asa marvelous beginning. I pray that some wisdom has rubbed
off on me from defeats and disappointments along with some degree
of humility from a few successes. If so, a tremendous experience
lies ahead and I am eager for the next twenty-five years,

ALAN JAY LERNER

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 42 E. 7ist St., New York, N.Y, 10021.

1774]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

THE following information was sent in for Alan Jay Lerner:

“Playwright, lyricist, producer, screen-writer, essayist, director,
he has been all of these successfully at one time or another.

“Mr. Lerner has written the screenplay for ‘My Fair Lady’ and
served as production consultant during the filming of the motion
picture. Present plans also call for his writing the screenplay of
‘Camelot.’

“Two of his previous screenplays share the unique distinction of
being the only original screenplays for musicals that have earned
Academy Awards. These are ‘Gigi’ and ‘An American in Paris.’

“In the fall, Mr. Lerner will be represented on Broadway with
an original musical play, ‘On A Clear Day You Can See Forever,’
with music composed by Burton Lane.

“Mr. Lerner is a past president of the Dramatists Guild, a member
of the board of governors of the American Academy of Dramatic
Arts and a member of the President’s Committee for the National
Culture Center in Washington. He also serves on the board of
governors of the National Hospital for Speech Disorders and the
New York Osteopathic Hospital (formerly Le Roy).

“At Harvard, as a member of the Hasty Pudding Club, Mr.
Lerner wrote two of its shows, 1938-39. He aimed for Broadway
early but he served an arduous apprenticeship before achieving the
status of a brilliant playwright-lyricist.

“Once out of college he worked at the radio department of Lord
& Thomas and then as a free-lance writer turning out over 500
scripts in two years.

“He first teamed up, in 1942, with Frederick Loewe, the com-
poser, who was destined to be his long-time collaborator. Their
first production, “The Patsy,’ was put on by a Detroit stock com-
pany that year. The next year, 1943, saw the first of their Broad-
way productions, “What’s Up,’ which ran for four weeks.

“They joined hands again in 1945 with Mr. Lerner writing the
books and lyrics, and Mr. Loewe doing the music for “The Day
Before Spring.’ MGM bought the motion picture rights.

“Then came ‘Brigadoon’ in 1947. ‘Brigadoon’ is the only original
musical to win the New York Drama Critics Award where both
the play and the lyrics were done by the same man.

“In 1948 he wrote the book and lyrics for ‘Love Life.’ His
musical collaborator was Kurt Weill. Then he went to Hollywood

[775 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

to do the screenplay for ‘A Royal Wedding’ followed by the
screenplay for ‘An American In Paris,’ which won him his first
‘Oscar.’

“Back on Broadway in 1951, he teamed up with Mr. Loewe for
another success, ‘Paint Your Wagon. His next venture was the
screenplay for ‘Brigadoon’ in 1934.

‘My Fair Lady,’ the musical that broke every record on Broad-
way, Winning many awards as well, opened in 1956. Since then it
has played with equal success in many countries such as England,
Australia, Sweden, Norway, Holland, Canada, Mexico and has even
had a State Department tour in Russia.

“The team of Lerner and Loewe went to Hollywood in 1958 to
work on the motion picture version of ‘Gigi.’ This achieved
legendary success winning nine Academy Awards, the most ever
received by a film up to that time. Among the awards which Mr.
Lerner received were ‘Oscars’ both for the screenplay and for
lyrics in the song “Gigi

“The next Lerner musical play to appear on Broadway was
‘Camelot.’ The book and lyrics, written by Mr. Lerner from
T. H. White’s The Once and Future King, were but part of the
playwright’s task. He was also co-producer with Mr. Loewe and

Moss Hart. When Mr. Hart, the director, suffered a heart attack
on the road, Mr. Lerner also took over the director’s role.”

HOBART ABRAHAM LERNER

 

HOME Appress: 70 Hickory Ridge Rd., Rochester, N.Y. 14625.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 720 East Ave., Rochester, N.Y, 14607,
PREPARED AT: Monroe High School, Rochester, N.Y,

[776]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940, M.v. (Co-
lumbia Univ.), 1943.

Marriep: Nan Barbara Alter, July 21, 1952 (divorced 1963); Elinor Otto Ken-
nedy, July 31, 1964. CHILDREN: Barry Edward, Dec. 6, 1953; Marcy Jane,
Feb. 4, 1955; Kenneth Douglas, Nov. 13, 1956.

occupation: Physician and surgeon, specialty, ophthalmology.

OFFICES HELD: Senior clinical instructor in ophthalmology, University of Roches-
ter School of Medicine, since 1949, attending surgeon, various hospitals,
Rochester, N.Y.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Ophthalmology; New York State and
Monroe County Medical Societies; Rochester Ophthalmological Society;
Harvard Club of Rochester.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in specialty journals in ophthalmology.

IN 1940 I entered the College of Physicians & Surgeons, Columbia
University, and earned my M.D. degree in December, 1943. After
completing an internship in Michael Reese Hospital, Chicago, I
went on active duty with the Navy, serving as a medical officer with
rank lieutenant (j.g-) MC, USNR until October, 1946.

In 1946 I resumed my medical training. I spent a year in post-
graduate work in ophthalmology at New York University, and
from 1947 to 1949 I served as resident in ophthalmology at the Strong
Memorial Hospital, Rochester, New York.

Since completing my formal training, I have engaged in the
private practice of ophthalmology. I have a busy office and surgical
practice which I find rewarding and interesting from a scientific
and intellectual point of view, and also from a social point of view,
because I love and thrive on the close contact with people afforded
me by this busy practice.

As senior clinical instructor in ophthalmology at the University
of Rochester School of Medicine, I enjoy both my clinic service
and also my affiliation with the residency training program and the
medical student. I have had a part in the progress of medical educa-
tion in my community. And like all professionals, I am still studying
and still learning, and I hope still improving.

In 1952, I married Nan Barbara Alter, and we had two sons and
a daughter. That marriage ended in divorce in 1963. This past
summer, in July, I remarried and am trying to resettle my life.

In 1951 I became interested in flying. Since then, I have either
owned or been part owner of four planes, the current one being a
twin engine Cessna 310.

I have always been interested in sports. In college I was a varsity
track man. Since leaving Harvard, most of my sport interests have

[777]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

been of the spectator variety, until about four years ago when I
became interested in Little League baseball, This began. as just
another means of finding common ground for my boys and myself.
] enjoy the program immensely, and have served as a team manager
for three vears and also in the past year as a member of the executive
board of one of our Little League divisions, for I get plenty of
exercise and a lot of fun with these active youngsters during practice
sessions and games.
And that about sums it up. I spend most of my time working
and studying at my profession and specialty. But more and more
time is being devoted to my children. My beautiful nine-year-old
girl, who is a figure skater, flanked by her eleven-year-old and eight-
year-old brothers are personal rew ards and satisfaction as all you
fathers will agree. I am trying to rebuild my life in a new marriage.
I do not feel twenty-five years older than on the June day in 1940
when as a graduation candidate I watched the robed procession of
the Twenty-fifth Reunion Class march solemnly through the Yard.
[have a strong feeling of affection for Harvard, and I deeply appre-
ciate the fact that from her I received a wonderful education. And
in my profession and my daily life I still depend upon the basic

patterns of study, investigation and the social outlook which I
developed as an undergraduate.

ERNEST LEVENS

; wil

4

 

! z }

,

HOME ADDRESS: 8212 Calmosa Ave., Whittier, Calif,
OFFICE ADDRESS: Aerojet-General Corp., Azusa, Calif,
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1934-1935, 1936-1930, 1940-1941. DEGREE: A.B, 1940(41)

{778 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Jeanette Herman, May 30, 1942. CHILDREN; Geoffrey David, Dec. 27,
1949; Carol Sue, April 15, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Manager, safety in aerospace company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, executive committee, National Safety Council Chemical
Section, since 1962; member, Industry Advisory Committee working with
Division of Occupational Health of Los Angeles City Health Dept. 1962-
63; panelist, Manufacturing Chemists’ Association, Chemical Safety Work-
shop, San Francisco and Los Angeles, October, 1962; member, James T.
Grady Award Committee, American Chemical Society, 1961-63, member,
Advisory Committee, American Chemical Society News Service, 1958-51;
chairman, Chemical Section, 1963, panelist, 1964, Western Safety Congress;
moderator, Chemical Section, National Safety Congress, 1964; member,
Local Section Subcommittee, American Chemical Society Committee on
Chemical Safety, since 1963; feature writer about Chemical Society
(SCALACS, Southern California Section, American Chemical Society),
since 1963; member, local school tax and bond campaign committees, local
high school district curriculum study committees, member, since 1962,
chairman, 1963-64, 1964-65, Whittier Parks and Recreation Commission;
various elective and appointive church offices at local and regional levels;
member, Democratic State Central Committee, since 1964.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Institute of Chemists (fel-
low); American Association for the Advancement of Science (fellow) ;
American Industrial Hygiene Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Ten technical publications, several patents, author of two chap-
ters in American Chemical Society Monograph No. 146, “Perchlorates,”
J. C. Schumacher, editor, Reinhold Publishing Corporation, 1960.

THERE can hardly be anything more conducive to thought than
the necessity to reduce the past twenty-five years to a few sum-
marizing words, almost as though this were an obituary. It is a
thoroughly sobering experience.

During my impecunious tenure at Harvard, I majored in. bio-
chemistry —a poor choice — with substantial overtones of music.
I have not really strayed very far since then.

My sole objective in those days was to become a physician. When
my applications to the Boston area medical schools were twice
rejected (for which I have never forgiven the AMA), I directed my
efforts, reluctantly, elsewhere.

I worked as a consulting chemist near Boston until early 1952
and during some of this time was enrolled as a graduate student in
chemistry at M.I.T, In 1952 I moved to the Los Angeles area, where
I held a variety of positions with a growing chemical manufacturing
company. After several years of directing organic chemistry re-
search, I took an offered opportunity to transfer My activities in
the same company to industrial hygiene and safety at ‘the corporate

[779]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

level. In 1963 I shifted to my present position in the aerospace
industry. I plan, direct and coordinate all safety functions, includ-
ing employee safety education, systems and procedures, protective
equipment specification, accident prevention and _ investigation,
organization and guidance of safety committees, safety standards
and manuals, handling and storage of hazardous substances, in-
dustrial hygiene engineering, coordination with Workmen’s Com-
pensation program, radiological safety.

I have not, in all these years, given up my deep interest in music.
While still in Boston, I performed (viola) with a number of
amateur orchestras. In Whittier, my present home, I play in the
excellent local symphony and in chamber groups. In recent years,
I have also taken up the recorder and classical guitar.

My son, now in the ninth grade, has studied music (piano, five-
string banjo), but his present major extracurricular interest is in
sports (football, track, wrestling, surfing), quite unlike his sedentary
father. He is an excellent student, interested in science and mathe-
matics. If circumstances permit, I would like to have him attend
Harvard.

My daughter, a very different sort of person than her brother,
is in the eighth grade. She is highly musical (piano, guitar, school
chorus); this year she has become much more serious about her
studies and will, I hope, do fairly well. She is one of the most
empathetic and self-understanding persons I have ever met. This
probably accounts for her current interest in psychiatric social
work and the Beatles.

My wife (S.B., Univ. of Massachusetts, M.P.H. from M.LT.) was
engaged in virus research at Harvard Medical School and_ the
Children’s Medical Center from 1942 until 1949. Since then she
has been very active in the League of Women Voters, the P.T.A.,
local school tax and bond campaigns and local and party politics.

Well, then, what does this all add up to? I have a fine family and
a comfortable, modest home. My career, although not the one I
had my heart set on, has been varied, interesting and productive. I
have made a few, small professional contributions and I am still
studying to increase my vocational competence, For many years
I have also consciously tried to give some of my time and efforts
to the betterment of community, schools and church, while re-
serving a portion — perhaps too little — for my family and myself,
I left college a political and religious liberal and have not altered
my views in any substantial way. As a student, I merely accepted

[ 780 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard; today, without allowing the sharp edges to become
blurred by nostalgia, I have come to realize the contributions of
Harvard to the world community and I am humbled.

While recognizing our faults, I have a deep and abiding faith in
the strengths of our society and the validity of its democratic proc-
esses. Our unique experiment must be preserved against the attacks
of doctrinaire, self-styled patriots who would destroy it. I was
deeply moved by the life and death of our young President and
classmate who was assassinated before he could fulfill the greatness
that was in him. But he left his mark on our country and on me.

If I have come to have one pervasive commitment it is to excel-
lence —a continued, unremitting striving for the highest standards
of individual performance im every phase of life, im every creative
endeavor, in education, in politics, in industry. This country cannot
survive if the highest goal we can set for ourselves is an amiable -
mediocrity in a society that is passive, inert and preoccupied only
with diversions, comfort and wishful dreaming of a rose-colored
past.

HERBERT HENRY LEVENTHAL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 92 Foster St., Boston, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1751 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; M.D. (Middlesex Univ.),
1944.

MarrieD: Shirley Alkon, June 15, 1941. CHILDREN: Lois, March 10, 1946; Jack,
Oct. 25, 1947; Laura, Jan. 28, 1951,

OCCUPATION: Physician.

AFTER two years of hospital training I began my practice of medi-

[781 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

cine in Chelmsford, Massachusetts. I was a “country doctor” for
six years, after which I brought my growing family (now two
daughters and a son) back to Boston, to give them the advantages
of a metropolitan environment.

For the past twelve years I have been in general practice in Brook-
line. My appointments to the staffs of the Parker Hill Medical Cen-
ter, Longwood Hospital and the Brookline Hospital have been very
gratifying. I am a member of the Massachusetts Medical Society,
Greater Boston Medical Club, Brookline Medical Club and the
Massachusetts Physicians Club. I am also school physician for the
City of Boston, and a member of the American School Health
Association.

As for hobbies, I have become active as a violinist in a com-
munity symphony orchestra, and in a string quartet. I am a hi-fi
enthusiast, especially enjoy taping some of the stereo broadcasts of
concerts of the B.S.O. Once or twice a week I fight the battle of
the bulge on the badminton courts.

My elder daughter, away at the University of Massachusetts, has
distinguished herself not only in her academic achievements, but
also as a pianist and singer of folk songs. My other daughter is
struggling with the cello. My son is becoming well-known in many
local orchestras as an oboist of no mean caliber; at present he is
principal oboist with the Greater Boston Youth Symphony Orches-
tra.

My wife and I enjoy duplicate bridge, sailing our little sloop and
bicycling on our recently acquired tandem. My years of practising
here in the Boston area have been happy ones for me and my

family. | am grateful to whatever powers that be for granting me
these blessings.

[ 782 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SANFORD LAWRENCE LEVENTHAL

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 18931 N.W. 17th Ct., Opa-Locka, Fla.

+ ROBERT MACKENZIE LEVERIDGE

 

BORN: Jan. 24, 1919, New York, N.Y. parents: Robert Mackenzie Leveridge,
Genevieve Greene.

PREPARED AT: Fountain Valley School, Colorado Springs, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939.

piep: Killed in action, Aug. 3, 1943, over Europe.

ROBERT MACKENZIE LEVERIDGE spent three years with our
Class and then studied medicine before entering the Air Force. He
attained the rank of lieutenant and was based in England where he
was a member of the 92d Bombardment Group. He was survived
by an aunt.

[ 783 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JACK I, LEVIN

 

HOME apprEss: 965 Bel-Air Rd., Los Angeles, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2265 Westwood Blvd., Los Angeles, Calif.

PREPARED AT: West High School, Minneapolis, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., Cum laude, 1940.

marrieD: Helen Phillips, June 30, 1941. cHipren: Thomas Edward Phillips,
Oct. 4, 1942; John Phillips, March 19, 1948.

HARVARD SON: Thomas Edward Phillips Levin, ’64.

HARVARD BROTHER: Harry Tuckman Levin, ’33.

occupaTION: President, Century Metalcraft Corporation, cookware-housewares,;

chairman-president, Viviane Woodard Corporation, cosmetics; director,
National Presto Industries, housewares.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of trustees, City of Hope, since 1958, member,

board of councillors, University of Southern California Medical School,
since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Hillcrest Country Club, Beverly Hills Tennis Club, Palm Springs
Racquet Club.

HAVE experienced allotted share of sorrow and happiness — war

and marriage — sickness and children — disillusion and satisfaction

—net balance strongly on the positive side — still much too early

to record for posterity — perhaps at our Fiftieth,

[ 784 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AARON LEVINE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 17 Ravine Rd., Great Neck, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Abraham & Straus, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, Magna cum laude, 1940; A.M., 1941.

MARRIED: Estelle Doris Malloy, Sept. 7, 1941. CHILDREN: Joseph Allen, Sept.
23, 1944; Deborah Jane, Sept. 14, 1948; David Peter, May 5, 1953 (de-
ceased); Jonathan Andrew, Nov. 5, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Solomon Bernard Levine, ’42, M.B.A., "47.

OCCUPATION: Assistant store manager, Abraham & Straus, department store.

J REMAINED at Harvard after graduation and took a Master’s
degree in history in June, 1941. Thereafter, in successive steps of
varying importance, I abandoned the idea of teaching (to return to
it part time twenty-three years later), married the girl (Estelle
Malloy, Radcliffe ’41), went into the export-import business and
then into the Army in 1943. Nineteen months overseas in the
E.T.O. as a military intelligence agent provided a_ first-hand
contact with the human misery of war and, in the months-long
interrogation of enemy agents and Nazi party members, a view of
the evil always worth fighting.

I returned to the export business in 1946, still intrigued by far-
off places, and in 1949 moved with my family to Bermuda where
for seven years I was involved in retail and importing businesses
and was able to travel in the West Indies and South America. Life
in Bermuda was a mixture of insular provincialism and cosmopolitan
sophistication and provided, as I hope it always will, an oasis of
peace, beauty, and warm friendships somewhat outside of the main-
stream of world events. We left Bermuda in 1956 but have been
able, fortunately, to return every summer since for brief periods of
sun and relaxation.

[ 785 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

I do not recommend anyone's starting a new career in another
country at age thirty-seven unless he is loaded. But our desire to
return to roots overcame fear of change and self-satisfaction. And
glad we are that we did it. A short interval with a hardware manu-
facturer promoting sales here and in Latin America preceded these
past eight years at Abraham & Straus— back in the retail business
with all its pressures and excitements and a sense of satisfaction
in one’s professional development. Along with “career” we have
enjoyed settling into a stimulating community and developing our
interest (which requires much of our spare time) in Jewish re-
ligion and education. Between taking courses and teaching Sunday
School, both my wife and I lead tiring but never tiresome lives.
Our greatest joys, of course, are Joseph, a twenty-year-old philos-
ophy major at Adelphi University; Deborah, sixteen years old and
a junior at Great Neck North High; and Jonathan, ten years old
and full of wit and pep.

This last year has been a cruel one — loss of father and father-in-
law, severe illnesses (all better now!) of wife and mother-in-law.
But we look ahead with hope and confidence in the future.

If Harvard has meant anything, it has meant a live memory of
high intellectual values, a sense of humor unabashed by tough times,
a set of standards mostly unattained but always valid. ‘Thank
Heaven for Harvard and all it stands for ——how much poorer we
would be if we had never lived and studied those years in Cambridge.

JULIAN A. LEVINE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 393 Broadway, The Highland, Cambridge, Mass. 02139.
orrice aporess: A.G. Photo Distributors, 373 Washington St, Boston, Mass
02108. ’ S.

[ 786 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: $.B., 1940.

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Harold David Levine, ’29, m.v., *32; Melvin Daniel Levine,
31 (deceased); Edward Philip Levine, ’38.

OccUPATION: Controller — internal control through proper managerial and ac-
counting procedures as applied to a nation-wide photo importing and dis-
tributing company.

OFFICES HELD: Director and treasurer, A.G. Photo Distributors; local chairman,
National Office Managers Association, Great Books of the Western World
Study Group, American Philatelic Society.

MEMBER OF: Brotherhood of Temple Ohabei Shalom, Brookline, Mass.; World
Zionist Organization; Friends of the Hebrew University; Friends of Bran-
deis University; Friends of DeCordova Museum, Retail Credit Men of
U.S.A.; National Office Managers Association; Jewish National Fund.

WHEN in 1954 I attended some of the functions of the Class of
1929, to which my brother, Dr. Harold D. Levine, invited me, his
classmates constantly asked me where my card was, assuming I
was their classmate. Although I do still look more like a member
of the Thirty-fifth Reunion Class than of the Twenty-fifth, my
loyalties are still assuredly with the Class of 1940. On the other
hand, my sympathies lie with the University of Michigan School
of Business Administration, Class of 1960, with which I matriculated
as its oldest member but, alas, was not graduated because I had to
put my family ties and responsibilities before my Master’s degree
and be satisfied with a certificate which I, nevertheless, cherish.
The only consoling fact of the constant recurrence of cardiac
disease among my siblings is that its study and control are also the
prime interest of my eldest brother and of my eminent cardiologist
uncle. However, despite their help, this mortal disease has not
only decimated my family but also affected me at every turn of my
life, because no sooner had I suffered the terrible tragedy of losing
a brother in West Germany and being forced into accepting his
burial there, than another sibling had a similar attack resulting in
caution regarding his treatment and new responsibilities on my
part toward his children and his business, which now requires my
daily attention.

And so I lead a precarious day-to-day life with three simultaneous
loyalties, one to the “town,” Cambridge, of which Iam a domiciliary
and, therefore, must be hostile to the “gown,” Harvard; the second
to the “gown,” Harvard College, of which I am a graduate, and,
therefore, must be hostile to the “town”; and the third to the Town
of Brookline, of which I am a legal resident, taxpayer and public

[ 787 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

LEONARD IRVING LEVINE

 

HOME ApbRESS: 63 Williston Rd., Auburndale, Mass. 02166.

OFFICE adress: Vinson Products, Inc., 420 Boylston St. Boston, Mass
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; A

- 1941.
marriep: Eleanor B. Golub, Aug. 6, 1950. cHipren: Richard Mark, May 12
1951; Amy Carol, April 23, 1953; Paul Jeremy, Aug. 22, 1958.
occuraTion: President, Vinson Products, Inc. distributors of vinyl fabrics
OFFICES HELD; President, Williams School P.T.A.
MEMBER OF: Temple Shalom, Newton, Mass

1 WAS in the Navy during the war, mostly aboard the USS Inch
serving as engineering officer, executive officer and commanding
officer, relieving Dave Tufts, °37, after the hostilities were over.
From 1946 to 1955, I was in the leather business. In 1950 I mar-
ried Eleanor Golub, by far the most memorable event in this period.
In 1955 I formed Vinson Products, Inc., which distributes vinyl
fabrics, In the same year we moved to a new home in Auburndale
Richard and Amy had joined us by now, Paul made it in 1958.

;
With a growing family has come an increasing involvement in
religious and community affairs.

i (Member of Temple Shalom;
president, Williams Schoo] P.T.A.)

1 have long felt a dissatisfaction with the continued social i injus-
tices of our society and hope to devote more time to work against
these. As a Harvard man, I have taken particular pride in the in-
spiring career of our classmate, John F. Kennedy; as an American,

1 feel great encouragement that the attainment of these ideals has
the approval of the majority of the people

[79° ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARRIE FRANCIS LEWIS
Fe a

    

HOME AppRESs: 260 Kelburne Ave., North Tarrytown, N.Y.

OFFICE apprEss: A. F. Lewis & Co., 853 Broadway, New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Solebury School, New Hope, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1940. DEGREE: s.B., cum laude, 1940.

MarrizeD: Margaret Lockwood Johnson, Jan. 10, 1942. CHILDREN: Timothy
Sloan, June 20, 1944; Jean Rodgers, Oct. 18, 1947.

occupation: Publisher.

OFFICES HELD: President, Pittsburgh Chapter, American Marketing Association,
1948-49; committee chairman, North Tarrytown Explorer Scott Post,
1958-60; president, Friends of the Warner Library, 1962-63, International
Printers Supply Salesmen’s Guild, 1964-65.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Trap Door Spiders; Eta Mu Pi.

PusLications: Articles on market research and merchandising in Harvard
Business Review, Journal of Marketing, etc.

EXCEPT for a Village year after graduation, my quarter-century
has been divided into four approximately equal parts:

First, years in market and opinion research at Macy’s when con-
cepts of suburban store development were crystallizing. I also then
devoted my quota of time, briefer than most, to the Army of the
United States, honorably and without distinction.

Next to the University of Pittsburgh’s retailing school and the
opportunity to manage its market and management research
program. I developed a continuing consumer panel to report pur-
chasing habits for shopping goods. It was the first of its type for
which findings were published, some of them in an article I wrote
for the Harvard Business Review. I was an associate professor at
Pitt and assistant director of the school.

Thence to Kaufmann Department Stores in Pittsburgh in 1951
as research director. Here I also shared in the planning of Pitts-

[791 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

burgh’s civic renaissance, wrote speeches, and accumulated miscel-
laneous duties. There was a sixteen-month Teamsters’ strike through
which we operated amid violence. I once was asked to develop a
program for “merchandising Grand Central Station.” And as super-
visor of food services, one day I countersigned an order for 200
pounds of oregano.

In 1956 my father unexpectedly lost both business partners to
death and illness, so I became publisher of a group of industrial direc-
tories that have served graphic arts firms since 1910. This was a
very small business indeed, and nurturing it back to health has been
difficult, successful, and satisfying. I expect to continue this, some
consulting in marketing, and some other things perhaps for years
to come.

Our village, Tarrytown, is heterogeneous . . . industrial, com-
mercial, a commuter bedroom. It has sharply delineated religious
groups, is identified with outstanding community services and
diverse opinions as to what their character should emphasize. I
enjoyed serving as president of the Friends of the Warner Public
Library here. During my term of office, divided opinion among
village trustees threatened to destroy the library as an effective
community service. 1 was successful as a catalyst in resolving this
near-tragic situation and this has given me particular satisfaction.

My son, Timothy, is a junior at Hiram where he nurses a Volvo.
Daughter Jean is a senior at Sleepy Hollow High. My wife, Mar-
garet, and I, after an early period as collectors of primitive jazz
records, found our interests centering about water. For years we
canoed in bush country .. . the Adirondacks, Algonquin Park, the
Quetico, and northern Ontario towards Hudson Bay. Then as
blood thickened we turned to the Caribbean Islands for snorkeling
and sailing charters. Our favorites are St. John, Virgin Gorda,
Buck Island, the Isles des Saintes, Saba. At home, we live a stone’s
throw from the Tappan Zee where we swim and sail a small sloop.

I respected Harvard when I was there and since then this respect
has increased. When I travel to Boston, I choose to stay in Cam-
bridge. Often I check the bulletin board in one of the House
entries and generally find an event scheduled for that particular

evening that appeals to me... a madrigal concert, a CORE
meeting, a production at Loeb.

[792]

nen eee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HOWARD THOMPSON LEWIS, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 17071 Ventura Blvd., S-107, Encino, Calif.

JOHN HARTLEY LEWIS

 

HOME AppreEss: Center Street, Dover, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lewis-Shepard Co., 125 Walnut St., Watertown, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Chestnut Hill, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1036-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MmarrieD: Phyllis Harriman Russell, June 25, 1940 (divorced 1946); Elizabeth
Louise Blackman, June 15, 1946. cH1LpReEN: Florence Harriman, March 12,
1941; Duncan Hartley, Sept. 28, 1942; Fay Elizabeth, May 22, 1948; Ann
Louise, Aug. 15, 1950; Arthur L,, 2d, Oct. 8, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, general management, Lewis-Shepard Company,
manufacturers of fork lift trucks and other industrial trucks.

MEMBER OF: American Society of Mechanical Engineers; Dedham Country &
Polo Club; Sakonnet Golf Club; Norfolk Hunt Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Patent No. 2,957,533— material handling trucks, October 25,

1960.
[ 793 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940 | :

RICHARD EVERETT LEWIs

canara petite aa paT* EALERTS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 145 Moseley Terr., Glastonbury, Conn.

OFFICE Apress: Revere Corp. of America, 845 N. Colony Rd., Wallingford,
Conn.

eegreneetnaIREN
coop IEEE ON -
vans peaked pas
Xs (eas ERATE EE TN
repemaperig ne aR :
1A EMOTE TE cee ep ut we
° tacglamentiive hae

ee ere

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1940. DEGREES: S.B., cu7n laude, 1940; S.M., 1941,

MarrieD: Althea Sceley Lane, June 27, 1942. CHILDREN: Richard Everett, Jr,,
Feb. 6, 1945; Marcia Glover, Nov. 30, 1947; Diana Merrill, March 5, 1950;

George Wallace, 3d, June 22, 1953, Robert Seeley, March 10, 1960.
HARVARD BROTHER: George Knowlton Lewis, ’44, A.M., 47, PH.D., 56.

occupation: Manufacturing (aerospace and industrial), quality assurance
manager.

sarecnaestarenes

ag gah dipyag ere.
pycedi beta Da NS aimee

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, 1952-53, teacher, 1953-61, St. Peter's Episcopal
Church; charter member, Board of Control, Exchange Club, 1953-54;
committeeman, Cub Scout Pack and Boy Scout Troop, 1954-57; chief a
umpire, Exchange Club Baseball League, 1954-56; business manager, Com- :
munity Theatre, 1957-58 (all Cheshire, Conn.),; vestryman, St. Luke's B4
Episcopal Church, Glastonbury, Conn., 1963-64.

MEMBER oF: Community Theatre, 1952-61; Copper Valley Club (charter
member), 1953-61 (both Cheshire, Conn.); Harvard Club of Northern

Connecticut (life member); Orchard Hill Club, Glastonbury, Conn.;
American Society for Quality Control.

oe pementn ene
ee NR PIT meres
see aH EEE TE °

ccatunte tie NPREC AT SRE SE
ph EES AER EE IE

AS the end of an era approaches, the effect of twenty-five years of :

erosion can now be seen. Inevitably, several peaks stand out, sur-
rounded by many lesser foothills, Fortunately, I did not set my

sights too high, and consequently have had few disappointments
during this flecting period. Certainly I would never have guessed
in 1940 that I would be enjoying the work of quality control
manager in a small, progressive firm in Connecticut. The only
relationship this bears to my Master’s degree in acronautical engi-

neering is that we do furnish equipment to the missile and acrospace
industry.

[ 796 |

~
er EL TT TT TCI r + rrempeamgemmeonsmmmanensot

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Since the last Report the addition of a fifth child had brought
about another major move for the family. A progressive school
system and an excellent builder justified the move in 1961 from
Cheshire to equally English-sounding Glastonbury, Connecticut.
The move was made in time for Rick to have two years in the high
school, and all the younger ones to make new friends and become
enthusiastic fans of new schools and new terms. Out of all this,
Puff has her garrison-style Colonial, and I have miles of stone
walls to build and an acre and a half of woods from which to cut
our fireplace wood. New friends (and what is more important in
life?) have made the move from the Harvard Club of Southern
Connecticut to its northern counterpart very enjoyable.

Our eldest, Rick, wanted to go to a small college, and his choice
of New England College in Henniker, New Hampshire, has turned
out to be an excellent one. His grades during the first two years
show that he has learned to apply himself and succeed where the
competition does not become discouraging. He has joined a frater-
nity, and as a sophomore was just elected co-captain of the 1965
soccer team.

Marcia, who is a senior at Glastonbury High this year, has de-
cided on Green Mountain College as her “early decision” choice.
Our Classmate, Raymond Withey, is president of this very beautiful
Vermont school. Although Marcia is the lady of the family, she
enjoys athletics and looks forward to tennis, swimming, horseback
riding, and especially skiing at Green Mountain.

Diana is a freshman in high school and is a real extrovert. She ts
the catalyst of family activity, with boundless enthusiasm for every-
thing. From her doodles and sketches that cover everything that
can be drawn on in the house it looks as though she should try art
— aesthetic or commercial — for either a vocation or avocation.

Number two son, George the 3d, is certainly destined to follow
in his namesake’s footsteps at Harvard. Even in sixth grade he
shows the originality, brilliance, and absent-mindedness of his grand-
father. He is presently involved in Little League, Boy Scouts, piano
lessons and Sunday School choir. He still finds time to edit his
school newspaper, work on his go-cart, do extra projects at school
and be helpful around the house.

The one we had “to keep us young” turned out to be a boy in-
stead of a sweet, quict little girl; and in four years Bobby has aged
us ten!

We find that this family circle keeps us pretty busy. We enjoy

[797 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

tennis, swimming and skiing, so that our location in central Con-
necticut is ideal. We are close to salt water and Cape Cod, only a
short drive to snow-covered hills, and still not too far from Lake
Champlain where my folks share their contemporary house during
summer vacations each year. After our sojourns away from New
England, 1946-47 in California, 1949 in Dallas, and 1949-51 on Long
Island, we are very thankful to be able to look forward to the
changing seasons in the surroundings which we enjoy so much.
With Revere I have had the opportunity to work in engineering,
sales and manufacturing, so my present assignment in quality assur-
ance adds another facet to my experience, at the same time being very
interesting. There are as many problems and challenges in a small
company (325 employees) as are found in the large ones such as
Chance Vought & Grumman where I worked previously.

So the years have come and gone, and they have been good to us
in so many ways. The opportunities for conversation, for interest-
ing reading, for picnics and trips, for exercise and sports, and for
passing on some of our hard-earned experiences have been shared
in by all. And over and around and through all of this has pervaded

the wonderful feeling of pride to have been a member of this out-
standing Harvard Class.

++ ROBERT SPENCER LIEBLICH

 

FON etn 7

 

Born: March 16, 1918, Passaic, N.J. parents: Charles Daniel Lieblich, Maude
Lake.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

pip: Aug. 11, 1956, Neptune, N.J.
ROBERT SPENCER LIEBLICH never wrote for any of our Re-

[798 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ports. The War Records Office in Cambridge reveals that he grad-
uated from the University of Virginia, enlisted in the U.S. Naval:
Reserve, was commissioned an ensign and planned to go on de-
stroyer duty. He was survived by his mother.

JAMES DAVIES LIGHTBODY, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 32600 Fairmount Blvd., Pepper Pike, Cleveland, Ohio.

OFFICE appRESsS: McDowell-Wellman Engineering Co., 113 St. Clair Ave.,
Cleveland, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: New Trier High School, Winnetka, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., Magna cum laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Patricia Calkins, June 21, 1940. CHILDREN: Thomas P., June 20, 1941;
Susan, Dec. 14, 1942; John Calkins, March 9, 1946; Richard Alden, May
13, 1947; William Sparks, Aug. 29, 1950; Mary Whiten, July 17, 1952;
George, Feb, 19, 1962.

HARVARD sons: Thomas P. Lightbody, ’63; John Calkins Lightbody, ’68

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, McDowell-Wellman Engineering Com-
pany (engineering construction firm); president, Lewis Welding & En-
gineering, Solon, Ohio (subsidiary), Electron Ohio, Inc. (electronic instru-
ment company).

OFFICES HELD: Republican Ward Leader, Pepper Pike, 1956-60; vice-president,
Harvard Club of Cleveland, r950-51, 1964-65; trustee, Goodrich Settle-
ment House, 1948-51; trustee and treasurer, Garden Valley Neighborhood
House, 1957-64; chairman, Orange School Citizens Committee, 1958-60;
member, executive committee, Pepper Pike Civic League, 1956-58; Cub
Scout master, 1948-50; Loaned Executive, Community Chest, 1959; Ro-
tarian, 1951-56; deacon, 1959-62, trustee, 1963-65, Fairmount Presbyterian
Church,

MEMBER OF: University Club of Cleveland; Harvard Club of Cleveland; Cleve-
lander Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Machinery patent pending on scrap charging for steelmaking
furnaces,

[799 ] |

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

MY main interests since leaving college have been my work and my
family. 1 have plenty of both. In addition to my main job I have
started Electron Ohio, a small w holly owned (by me) electronic

instrument company. As to family, Tish and I have been blessed
with seven children whose ages span a generation.

After leaving college 1 spent eighteen years in the automotive and
aircraft parts manufacturing business (with Thompson-Ramo Wool-
ridge, Eaton Manufacturing Company and Clevite Corporation, all
of Cleveland). Five years ago I switched to the Capital Equipment
industry with electronic instruments as my sideline. In all of these
areas my engineering studies at college have served as a basis for
understanding the technical problems. Learning to work with

others, to coordinate them and guide their activities can be learned
on the job. My work experiences have led me to believe that after

choosing a good wife one’s next most important choice is choosing
a good boss.

On the family side I have been very fortunate, too. Our family
life is fuller than ever now that the older children are adults and
our friends, helping us with the younger ones. Tish Calkins and I
were married the day after graduation and are still raising children.
Our oldest, Tom, is nearly twenty-four and little George, “our do-

it-yourself grandchild, 4s three. School and sports activities are
our main preoccupations.

Tish and Tom are teachers, Sue and
John are in college (Albion and Harvard), Dick and Bill are in

high school, Mary in jumor high, and George is at home

We live in the country, on six acres, which provides both lots of
fun and lots of character-building chores. We have three horses in
our home-built barn, four Welsh Corgis, sundry lesser creatures,
Riding, tennis, ice skating and swimming are our favorites. Spring
vacations we have been family camping in Florida and throughout
the middle and eastern United States.

These middle years are the best in life so far I find. [’'m working
harder than ever but it’s more mental effort than physical now.
Pm trying to build an estate so my grandchildren will have a little
more financial stability than 1 had in my own formative years
during the depression. I hope it may help them develop the self-
confidence necessary for real leadership in life. When I have my
small pile set aside | hope to become more active in political affairs.

W cannot afford to stand aside and trust others to steer our com-
munities and our country. Our times are as demanding as any
period before, and if we leave this leadership up to less able or less

[ 800 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

=xperienced and sound men, we are shirking our responsibilities.

I haven’t satisfactorily resolved why God put us on earth, but
~'m trying to understand. I know that all of us, particularly those
~vho are lucky, have a real responsibility to make the world a better
lace because we have been here.

ROBERT JOE LILL

 

LAST KNOWN apprEss: 326 M.A.C. Ave., East Lansing, Mich. (Lost.)

WILLIAM HALL LINK

MAILING ADDRESS: 801 N. Pennsylvania St., Indianapolis, Ind.

JOHN BIRD LLOYD

 

[OME ADDRESS: 209 Sargent Rd., Brookline, Mass. 02146,

[ 801 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

orFice appress: Lemuel Shattuck Hospital, 170 Morton St, Jamaica Plain,
Mass. 02130,

PREPARED aT: Cambridge School, Inc., Kendal Green, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B. 1940; M.D., 1943.

MmarriED: Paulette Taddei, March 17, 1953. campren: John Bird, Jr. July 24,
19553 Philip Bird and Madge Ariane Bird (twins), May 7, 1957:

occupation: General surgeon; chief of surgical services, Lemuel Shattuck
Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American College of Surgeons; Massachusetts Medical Society;
American Medical Association, Norfolk District Medical Society; Boston
Surgical Society; The Country Club; Beverly Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Occasional surgical papers.

I SPENT the years 1940-43 at Harvard Medical School. I went to
the Massachusetts General Hospital, the Peter Bent Brigham Hos-
pital and the Boston Lying-In Hospital and the Free Hospital for
Women for residency training in surgery, pathology and anesthesia.
From the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital I went to the Beverly Hos-
pital for another year of surgery.

1 joined the Army Medical Corps as a captain and spent 1951 to
1953 inclusive at Tokyo Army Hospital as a general surgeon. This
was an interesting professional and social experience made bright
by my discovery of a beautiful French army nurse whom I subse-
quently married. On returning to Boston in 1953, | worked for a
while at the Surgical Research Laboratory at the Children’s Hospital.
Since the fall of 1954 I have been involved with the development
of the surgical service at the Lemuel Shattuck Hospital. It is my
feeling that a hospital which deals with chronic disease has an im-
portant place in our civilization with its aging population and that
it relieves much suffering.

Yachting was my major hobby for many years, Photography
remains a great interest. At present my major enjoyment is watch-

ing the world unfold through the eyes of my children as we travel
on my vacations.

[ 802 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+: CAMPBELL LOCKE

 

BorN: March 24, 1918, Cedarhurst, Long Island, N.Y. parents: Campbell Eric
Locke, Ruth Slattery.

PREPARED AT: St, Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarRIED: Caroline Endicott Francklyn, May 28, 1947, Hewlett, Long Island,
N.Y.

piep: Sept. 15, 1963, New York, N.Y.

wipow: Mrs. Campbell Locke, Mountain Top Road, P.O. Box 781, Bernards-
ville, N.J.

CAMPBELL LOCKE spent four years with our Class and was a
member of Hasty Pudding—Institute 1770 and the Fly Club. He
attended the Law School for a year and during the war served four
years in Army Air Force Intelligence, attaining the rank of major.
After the war he entered the financial field with the National City
Bank of New York. For our last Report, Locke wrote that he was
an investment analyst. He was survived by his wife.

[| 803 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

WILLIAM BEACH LOCKE

 

LAST KNOWN AppRESS: 2701 Van Ness Ave., San Francisco, Calif. 94109. (Lost.)

RANDOLPH SCOTT DEWEY LOCKWOOD

 

HOME AppRESS: 214 Tuttle Rd., Terrell Hills, San Antonio, Texas.

TRANSFERRED FROM: U.S. Naval Academy, Annapolis, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: $.B. (U.S. Naval Academy), 1936; S.By
cum laude, 19409.

marriep: Maridel Mckarland, July 19, 1949, cHiLpREN: Brocton Dewey, Jan.
10, 1944 (by previous marriage), Randolph, May 26, 1950; Anne, July 18,
1953; Victoria, June 30, 1957.

occupation: Retired, .

OFFICES HELD: Commissioned officer, USMC, twenty-four years.

MEMBER OF: Oceanside Lodge 381, F. & A.M, of California; Chapter 73,

Royal Arch Masons, Kittery, Maine; St. Amand Commandery No. 20,
Knights Templar, Kennebunk, Maine, Chapter 4,

! : Texas Society, Sons
of the American Revolution, Somerser Chapter,

. Magna Charta Barons,
Philadelphia, Republican Party of Texas.

[ 804 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER twenty-five years what can one possibly say to one’s
classmates that they haven’t heard already? Would that I possessed
the light touch to impart a bright ray of hope or humor to an
otherwise unconventional diatribe. But, alas, I lack — and Harvard
never developed within me — such facile proclivities of mind and
pen (in my case, a well-oiled typewriter).

As I gaze at the faded Tercentenary map, my framed Latin
diploma, and the moth-ceaten Harvard banner on the walls of m
study in a vain attempt at inspiration, I am reminded of the past
and of the fact that we of 1940 rounded a windy corner of history
on that fateful June of our graduation. How long ago, how well
remembered! ©

“Hull, Sandburg given honorary degrees” read the placid head-
lines of the Crimson, while in the Square the news vendors shouted
of “Dunkirk” and the “Fall of France.” That sheltered, comfortable
world of ours was dying, and the world in which we would have
to live was being born —a world of wars (hot and cold), thermo-
nuclear devices, supersonic speed, space travel, social upheavals, in-
flation, installment buying, suburbs, computers, expressways, color
TV, water pollution, population explosions, spiraling taxes, un-
balanced budgets, increasing lawlessness, fluoridated toothpaste,
planned obsolescence and banality.

Suffice to relate, like most of the Class, I was caught up in the
maelstrom of the Second World War and its aftermath. But, un-
like most, I elected to remain in uniform.

Now that I have retired from the Marine Corps, after having
survived the Japanese attack on Oahu and the Red Chinese attack
on the Chosin Reservoir (Korea), I find that I have time for writing
(so far, I have struck no responsive spark from any interested
publisher), for sporadic reading (history, genealogy, etc.), for re-
flection (economics and world affairs), for a bit of exercise (mow-
ing the lawn), and for raising a family.

The more I see of life the more [ am convinced of the validity
of the conservative point of view and of the folly of authoritarian
liberalism both at home and abroad. To paraphrase Kipling:

Never the lotus closes,
Never the wild-fow!] wake,
But America gives up something
For the welfare planner’s sake,
Perhaps it might be well to recall the words of the Marquis de
Custine to the effect that “despotism is never a greater menace than

[ 805 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

when it claims to do good . . . and evil posing as a remedy has no
limits.”

Those of us with (or without) the advantages of a Harvard
education plus a few resources, of course, can seek wary refuge in
the stock market (the Class of 1929 will disagree, no doubt) as an
alleged hedge against inflation; and it is as good a place as any in
these changing times, I trust. For there, at least, one is confronted
with a continuous “moment of truth” (Hail Veritas!) with no
foolishness about ends justifying means.

At times when I find myself inclined to ponder somewhat pessi-
mistically upon the current course of events, 1 am warmed, how-
ever, by the memory of the wise Founding Fathers who risked their
lives, their fortunes, and their sacred honor to make our country
great. And then I further recall the story of the courageous Twenty-
five Sureties who 750 years ago this very year stood fast against
the Tyrant John and gave the Magna Charta to the English-speaking
world (among them was an ancestor of mine, Saire de Quincey).
Later they were persecuted, excommunicated, or forced to seek
asylum in the Crusades. But, in the end, the Charter stood and
Freedom still stands today —for the time at least. Again, Hail
Veritas! And may Harvard look to its laurels.

JOHN HILDER LOEB

 

HOME Appress: 40 E. 66th St., New York 21, NY.

OFFice ADDRESS: Brillo Manufacturing Co., 60 John St., Brooklyn 1, N.Y,

PREPARED aT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N.Y,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1940,

MarRiED: Diana Ponsonby Marks, June 15, 1949. cHitpren: David Alan Dec. 1
1950; Virginia Alison, May 9, 1953. , “19,

[ 806 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARVARD BROTHER: Michael Andrew Loeb, M.3.a., ’52.

OCCUPATION: Treasurer and director of advertising, Brillo Manufacturing Com-
pany, manufacturers of household cleansers and abrasives.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Brillo Manufacturing Company, Inc., 1946-63; direc-
tor, Brillo Manufacturing Company of Great Britain, Ltd., London, Eng-
land; director, treasurer since 1958, Brillo Manufacturing Company (Can-
ada) Led., Toronto; director and treasurer, The Williams Company, Lon-
don, Ohio, since 1955; director, Bernstein-Macaulay Special Fund, Inc.,
New York, since 1963; director, since 1950, vice-president, 1955-56, Grand
Street Settlement, New York City.

MEMBER OF: Sunningdale Country Club (governor 1961-62); Harvard Business
School Club of New York; Officers Mess, New York Naval Shipyard.

FOLLOWING graduation a short trip across the Charles took me
to the Business School for a year. Then the following year it was
the Navy instead and where — right back to the Business School
for the Naval Supply Corps course. Four years in the Navy as an
officer in the Supply Corps brought me to exotic-sounding places
— New Guinea, the Philippines, Pacific atolls, Okinawa, Japan,
and China — which proved to be somewhat less exotic but none-
theless interesting on closer inspection.

Having started with business training, after the war I rejoimed
the Brillo Manufacturing Company, Inc., Brooklyn, New York, a
company of which my father had been one of the founders. Our
principal product is Brillo Soap Pads which lighten the daily
burdens of housewives everywhere (along with those many hus-
bands who also have to clean the pots and pans). I have served as
treasurer and director of the company but have been primarily
concerned with marketing as director of advertising and exports.

These years have been particularly challenging in consumer goods
advertising as the influence of television (beneficent or baleful, de-
pending on your view) has broadened. Each year has presented
shifting problems in the television industry, and while it is easy
to deplore the state of the medium, it is far more difficult to provide
the answers for better use of TV. The sheer size and impact of the
medium is awesome, and it provides continuous stimulation and
fascination to those of us who work with this enfant terrible of
communications.

Late in 1963 Brillo, an independent company for over fifty years,
merged with the Purex Corporation, Ltd., Lakewood, California,
a diversified firm primarily in the field of consumer cleansing
products. We operate as an autonomous division, but being part of
a larger organization provides new methods and viewpoints. We

[ 807 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

have had a particularly successful operation in the United Kingdom
and Eire, and working with Purex it is anticipated that these over-
seas operations will be. expanded. In ways such as this, new horizons

should open.

8 HEH, PE HENS SATE

In this story one cannot sav, “Meanwhile, back at the split level
ranch. . .” since my wife Diana and I are confirmed New Yorkers,
We are apartment dwellers with a vengeance — no grass to mow.

no furnace to nurse, no storm windows to put up. We like to do

the things there are to do in New York and we do them. Our :
children, David at the Riverdale School and Ginny at Dalton School, t
have grown up in the City and are apparently healthy, normal,
and none the worse for the absence of suburbia. While the City
is home, we like it even better by getting away often — skiing in
winter, Martha’s Vineyard in summer, and family trips to Europe, :
the West, wherever fancy dictates and time permits.

Both Diana and I are involved in more outside activities (educa-
tional, political, charitable, etc.) than we have time for, and yet
these provide tremendous satisfactions. We are astonished that the
years have flown so fast but have no regrets, “The span at Harvard,
which was so short in retrospect, surely was an important factor
in setting the framework within which we have lived. It is our Lo
hope that the years ahead will give us the opportunities to meet
new experiences and the capacity and zest to cope with them, to .
enjoy them, and to find continued fulfillment. :

+ RICHARD LOEB

 

BorN: Dec. 22, 1918, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Leo Loeb, Be :
PREPARED AT: Montclair High School, Montclair, NJ. elle Schiffman.

[ 808 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1938-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 7agna cum laude, 1940.
piep: March 24, 1946, in Germany.

RICHARD LOEB attended the University of Michigan before
coming to Harvard and after graduation was a research analyst in
the Library of Congress in Washington, D.C. In June, 1942, he
entered the Army and served as statistical control officer in the
Army Air Forces for a year. He was promoted to lieutenant and
in November, 1944, transferred to the Infantry. The following
February he went to the European Theatre where he held various
posts. He was a captain and personnel officer when he died as a
result of gunshot wounds in Germany. He was survived by his
father.

HARRY LONDON

 

MAILING ADpRESS: 130 Laurel St., Malden, Mass. 02148.

[ 809 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JULIUS NATHAN LUDWIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 12634 Bessemer St., North Hollywood, Calif. 91606.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 510 W, Sixth St., Los Angeles, Calif. goor4.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

marrigepD: Linda Levin, March 16, 1947. curren: Terri Ellen, July 24, 19483
Norman Steven, Nov. 3, 1956.

occuPATION: Insurance agent and broker.

OFFICES HELD: Senior warden, Home Lodge No. 721, F. & A.M,, State of Cali-
fornia.

AT the present time (October, 1964), senior warden, Home Lodge
No. 721, Free & Accepted Masons of the State of California. It is
hoped that by the time this is printed, I will be a good part of the
way through my year as Worshipful Master of the same Masonic
Lodge.

As I reflect on the past tw enty-five years, I regret that this college

played such a small part. To those few of you who may remember
me, “Ave et vale!”

[ 810 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

CHARLES HAMILTON LUTHER

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 1937 Kenwood Pkwy., Minneapolis, Minn.

CHARLES DAY LUTZ, JR.

OREO AO AEE REORR TSE, Sie ee

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1934 Harrison St., Amarillo, Texas.

OFFICE apprEss: Osgood Marble Center, 2701 S. Buchanan St., Amarillo, ‘Texas.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann High School, Gary, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940(41); M.B.A. (New York Univ.),
1950.

MarrieD: Helen Osgood, May 11, 1943. CHILDREN: Margaret Lee, Jan. 25, 1947;
Charles Day, 3d, Aug. 13, 1949; Ellen Osgood, Dec. 6, 1952; Elizabeth
Bancroft, March 13, 1964.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Miller Lutz, ’44.

occuPATION: President, Osgood Marble Center; owner, Osgood Monument
Company; vice-president, Burlust Development Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, City Park Recreation Committee; deacon-trustee,
Westminster Presbyterian Church; director, Amarillo Chamber of Com-

[ 811 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

merce, Better Business Bureau; director and past president, YMCA; direc-

tor, Potter-Randall Counties Citizens Committee, Amarillo Zoological So-
cie

member OF: Amarillo Country Club,

MARTIN JAMES LYDON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 195 Fairmount St., Lowell, Mass.
OFFICE appress: Lowell Technological Institute, Lowell, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Keith Academy, Lowell, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. cu” laude, 1940; A.M., 1945; 8D. Hon.

(Lowell Technological Inst.), 1954; evo. Hon. (Merrimack Coll.), 1958.
MarRiEp: Maria B. Monti, June 21, 1962.

OccUPATION: President, Lowell Technological Institute.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Washington Savings Bank; incorporator, Lowell Institu-
tion for Savings; director, National Council for Textile Education, Moses
Greeley Parker Lecture Series; member, Higher Education Facilities Com-

mission; member, Advisory Board of Higher Education Policy, Massachu-
setts Higher Education Assistance Corporation.

MEMBER oF: Vesper Country Club; Yorick Club; University Club.

SINCE graduation my life has been pretty much a continuation of
interest in education. After studying for the Master’s degree at
the Harvard Graduate School of Education, I taught English at the
Howe High School in Billerica, Massachusetts — my home town.
Later, I taught at the Palm Beach Junior College in Florida, and
then became interested in the potential and challenge of the Lowell
Technological Institute —then the Lowell Textile Institute. After
a few years of teaching and administrative activity, I became presi-
dent of the Institute in 1950. At that time, I was thirty-two years

old and allegedly the youngest college president in the country.
Since then, I] have had fifteen years of excitement and stimulation

[ 812 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in seeing the Institute expand and develop in size and stature. M
professional and personal life has been complemented in the last
three years by my beautiful wife Maria who is a native of Argentina
—and who still loves me despite my failure to master Spanish.
Maria and I are now embarked on a little program of educational
assistance to help worthy and needy students from Latin America.
We want to help these youngsters as others helped us in times past.

All in all, the last twenty-five years have been good to me, and
my four years at Harvard College were a sound base upon which
to build the last quarter-century. I hope to be able to continue to
do something constructive in the years ahead. I expect that what-
ever I do will be in the field of education and I shall be happy if it
can include some opportunity to be helpful to Harvard.

GEORGE BURNHAM LYONS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 320 Lincoln Rd., Walpole, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss: Fiber Products Division, Kendall Co., Walpole, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., #agna cum laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Margaret Mary Byington, Oct. 12, 1946. CHILDREN: Joanna Prince,
Feb. 2, 1948; Nancy Foster, May 9, 1950; David Burnham, April 7, 1953-

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Wilson Lyons, 43.

occupation: Manufacturing; plant management, nonwoven fabrics, surgical
dressings and fiber products.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Walpole Board of Appeals, since 1961; chairman and
treasurer, Boy Scouts Troop Committee, since 1962; associate member,
Walpole Industrial Commission, since 1962; chairman and member, various
church committees, United Church in Walpole, 1952-62.

MEMBER OF: Country Skating Club; Walpole Baystatesmen; SPEBSQSA: for-
merly member, Society for the Advancement of Management, American

Materials Handling Society.
[ 813 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

A REVIEW of twenty-five years of one’s life fills one with mixed
feelings, those of satisfaction with the good and constructive, those
of nostalgia as one recalls fond memories, those of regret when one
realizes how many hopes and ambitions have been unfulfilled, and
a sense of the speed with which time passes by. There are some of
our number who have reached peaks of achievement, there are
others, and | presume most of us, who have made only their modest

contribution to the community wherein they have raised their
families and lived their modest lives.

1 consider myself one of the latter, my name will not be found
in Who’s Who, nor have I accumulated large material possessions.
However, my life has been and is one of happiness and fullness.

I take pride 1 in a fine family and a position of respect in the com-
munity.

After graduation I spent a period of time with the War Depart-
ment in Illinois prior to World War IL. In 1942 I enlisted in the
Navy Supply Corps, with tours of duty at Great Lakes, Harvard
Business School, with motor torpedo boats in the Solomon Islands,
and at the Boston Navy Yard.

By September of 1945, I had returned to civilian life and begun
my business career with the Kendall Company in Walpole, Massa-
chusetts. There I met a 1943 Mount Holyoke graduate whom I
married about a year later on October 12, 1946. We became resi-
dents of Walpole, a town of some 8,000 people, about one third
of the distance between Boston and Providence. Now some eighteen
years, three children later, we are still residents of Walpole, now
grown to almost 16,000. In 1951 we moved into a new house two
miles out of town. We are still there but with considerably more
neighbors as the town has crept out toward us.

Life in Walpole has been quite typical of that in a small suburban

community, very active, friendly and rewarding, and I suppose in
its way provincial. Now and then we do get into the “metropolis”
and even over to Cambridge for an occasional football game. Over
this span of eighteen years our interests have been many, including
amateur theatricals, golf, badminton, skating, gardening and “house-
maintenancing,” P.T.A., church committees and Sunday School
teaching, several town committees, League of Women Voters, Boy
and Girl Scouts, and a barbershop chorus. Our vacations have
found us several weeks in Maine each summer and we have taken

family camping trips on which we have covered most of the north-
eastern corner of the U.S. and the Maritime Provinces.

[ 814 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Professionally, my life has been unspectacular, that of a manu-
facturing executive in a local plant of a large national diversified
multiplant integrated textile company. Although my locus has not
changed over nineteen years my assignments have involved me in
most phases of manufacturing during a period of considerable
diversification and growth.

At such a milestone as this one’s thoughts naturally turn toward
the future. My personal aspirations are relatively modest. I look
forward to a continued satisfying and progressive relationship in
my business association. I have hopes for college for our three
children, now sixteen, fourteen and eleven, and like any father look
forward to their developing their own lives along those lines which
they find most satisfying in line with their capabilities and interests.

I have faith that all of us can pursue these goals in a world which,
although it will continue to have its crises and moments of disillusion-
ment, will avoid commiting suicide. There are tremendous chal-
lenges ahead which must be met; however, along with these are
great opportunities which can be realized. I believe with a confident
sense of optimism that mankind will make the most of them with
the help of an omnipresent God who, I have faith, did not create
man to destroy himself. This will require the fullest exploitation
of the hands and brains of men; it will not be easy to achieve — but
what of true value is?

WILLIAM IRVING McAULIFFE

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 321 Knob Hill Ave., Redondo Beach, Calif,

[ 815 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JOHN GAFFNEY McCORMICK

Pret terete: arn te nee arama

  

HOME apprEss: Avenida Ashford 1700, Santurce, Puerto Rico.

OFFICE apprEss: Del Parque 603, Santurce, Puerto Rico.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarRiED: Jane Houston Playter, Sept. 25, 1943 (died Oct. 18, 1952); Hilda
Hernandez Matos, Nov. 12, 1956. CHILDREN: Mary Patricia, June 28, 1944;
John Thomas, July 7, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas James McCormick, ’29.

occupation: Corporate secretary and assistant treasurer, Atlantic Southern In-
surance Company.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Society of Former Special Agents of the F.B.L,
1949-53; member, since 1948, executive board member, since 1960, Boy
Scouts of America; executive assistant to the president, Martin, S.A.,
Panama, Republic of Panama, 1956-58; assistant to the president, 1960-61,
assistant secretary, 1961-62, Atlantic Southern Insurance Company.

MEMBER OF: B.P.O.E.; Navy League of the US.; Defense Supply Association;
International Sales and Marketing Executives; San Juan Yacht Club; Re-
serve Officers Association Beach and Tennis Club, Puerto Rico.

[ 816 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THOMAS EDWARD McCORMICK, JR.

 

MAILING AppRESS: Box 35, Navy 127, FPO, Seattle, Wash.

JOHN THOMPSON McCULLOUGH

 

HOME apprEss: 1004 Nicholson Rd., Wynnewood, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Distribution Age, Chestnut at 56th Street, Philadelphia, Pa.
19139.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

MARRIED: Hester Jane Rodgers, Dec. 22, 1939. cHILD: Bruce, Dec. 6, 1940.

occupation: Magazine editor — now executive editor of Distribution Age.

OFFICES HELD: Photographer, 1937-41, picture editor, 1941-43, Philadelphia
Evening Bulletin, associate editor, Time, weekly newsmagazine, 1943-533
assistant editorial director, Look, 1953-54; editorial consultant, The Amer-
ican Weekly, 1954-55; story editor, “Robert Montgomery Presents” (TV
show), 1955; managing editor, New York Herald Tribune Sunday Maga-
zine, 1956-57; editor, Western Family and Western Outlook, 1957-593

[ 817 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940
director of public relations, York Research Company, 1960; executive

editor, Distribution Age.
MEMBER OF: Merion Cricket Club; Greenwich Country Club.

SINCE the Twenty-fifth Reunion falls just six months after my
twenty-fifth wedding anniversary, [ can honestly say that I have
enjoyed the years since leaving Harvard as much as anyone in our
Class.

Accomplishments? Not many, really, and even those few too
slight to mention. But I’m pretty proud of my twenty-four-year-
old son who, after four years in the Marine Corps (Parris Island,
Pendleton, Okinawa, Korea and the Philippines), is now news editor
of the Afain Line Chronicle (Ardmore, Pennsylvania) during the
day, while attending the University of Pennsylvania at night.

Over the years P've played a good deal of tennis and squash, even
acting as first round cannon fodder in national tournaments. (Well,
Bruce and I did reach the second round one year in the Father &
Son Grass Court!) Still playing once or twice a week, but strictly
doubles, and strictly social, The combination of twenty-five more
years and forty more pounds is not a winning one.

About ten years ago, I devoted six months to a television show
concept I had dreamed up —a dramatic show based on psychiatric
case histories. I called it “The Breaking Point,” and, with a veteran
writer and two psychiatrists (one for each of us), managed to turn
out six shooting scripts. Had the late Ward Bond interested in
playing the sustaining role (this was before “Wagon Train”). But,
even though the Madison Avenue agencies seemed to like the show,
I couldn’t sell it. A couple of years ago the show appeared on net-
work — my concept and even my title. But the names had been
changed, and the idea was credited to some total stranger. Well, a
cobbler should stick to his last.

Politics has played a major role among my avocations. From the
youthful indiscretion of casting my first national vote for F.D.R.
in 1940, I shifted rapidly to a conservative point of view. I regret
that I never had the chance to vote for Bob Taft, who would have
made an excellent President. With somewhat less enthusiasm, I
cast my most recent vote for Barry Goldwater. Not that I thought
him an oustanding candidate —it was because he actively cam-
paigned on a principle I ardently support. This is simply that
somehow we Americans must find a way to stop our nation’s head-
long dash down the road to socialism. Somehow, we must teach

[ 818 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

our children that Opportunity is a thousand times more precious
than Security.

My wife and I helped a Republican novice defeat Senator Wil-
liam Benton in Connecticut; we lost with Bill Knowland in Cali-
fornia — and to Pat Brown, of all people, and we’ve been in the
vanguard of a number of primary fights. Oddly enough, politics is
pretty much the same from state to state. The Democrats are active
all year round at the precinct level, the Republicans don’t move
until two weeks before election. Which is why the Democrats win
more elections.

Every year I am more mindful of the unhappy prophecy of a
very wise and very dear friend, the late Whittaker Chambers. He
said that, in leaving the Communist party to fight against them, he
felt he was leaving the winning side to join the eventual losers.

I have the unmistakable feeling that we are getting close to the
point of no return in our childlike faith in a totalitarian government
in Washington. I just hope we haven’t already gone too far.

TORBERT HART MACDONALD

 

  

OT

HOME ApprEss: 63 Appleton St., Malden, Mass. 02148.

OFFICE apprEss: U.S. Representative —— Room 1209, Longworth Bldg., Wash-
ington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., 19403 LL.B. 1943 (47).

MarRiED: Phyllis Brooks. cHtLpren: Torbert Hart, Jr., Jan. 1, 1946; Laurie,
Aug. 18, 19473; Brian, Sept. 18, 1953; Robin, Aug. 10, 1956.

HARVARD SON: Lorbert Hart Macdonald, Jr., '68.

occupation: U.S. Representative, 7th District of Massachusetts, and lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Lawyer; legal assistant to Eric Johnston, president, Motion Pic-
ture Producers Association of America; chief trial attorney for New Eng-

[ 819 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

land Office, National Labor Relations Board; US. Congress, 1954 through
January, 196-.

MEMBER OF: American Legion, Veterans of Foreign Wars; Disabled American
Veterans, Kmghts of Columbus, Federal, Massachusetts and Boston Bar
Associations; Harvard Varsity Club.

AFTER graduation in June, tggo, T entered the Harvard Law

School where I remained until the month after Pearl Harbor. |

volunteered for the U.S. Navy and was commissioned as an ensign.

Entered PT Boat Service and spent a long tour of duty in the South-

west Pacific: New Guinea, New Britain, Biak, etc. Received some

combat decorations, including Silver Star, and was delighted to
return to the United States. At the conclusion of the war, I re-
entered the Law School and graduated in 1947, although officially

carried on the rolls as the Class of 1943.

After graduation I practised law in New York for a year or s0,
then returned to Boston as the trial attorney for the New England
Office of the National Labor Relations Board.

In the meantime, I had married and can recall the latter part of
my law school career as being highlighted by making the adjust-
ment from a rather carefree career in ‘the Navy, to tending to law
books and a family while trying to make up four years away from
anv heavier reading than old newspapers.

Another highlight of this period was my active participation in
our classmate’s and my former roommate's entrance into politics.
Jack Kennedy was successful in running for Congress from a dis-
trict which included, among others, the City of Cambridge, and I
was happy to have been able to help. I participated in Jack’s suc-
cessful run for the United States Senate and then ran for the
Congress myself in 1954, defeating a Republican incumbent in a
fairly predominantly Republican area and becoming the first Demo-
crat ever elected in the district. I have served in the Congress since
that time and have thoroughly enjoyed most of my experiences here
in Washington. [ have found it a very busy and full life in trying
to combine a Boston law practice with my Washington duties as
Assistant Majority Leader and as a member of the Interstate and
Foreign Commerce Committee, and probably have logged as many
air miles as many pilots for Northeast Airlines.

It obviously was a great thrill to participate in the arrival of the
New Frontier here in Washington, for | was in’ constant touch
with our late classmate and saw the great burdens of the Presidency.

[ 820 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

During that Presidential primary I headed up Jack’s forces in Mary-
land and later traveled the country with him.

In the meantime, my own family has grown to be four in number
and suddenly startingly old in age. My elder boy, Torbert, Jr., was
admitted to the College last fall, where he is destined to graduate
in just three years. I am proud of his achievement since, as I recall,
most of us had difficulty in doing it in four years. Laurie, Brian
and Robin complete the group and are growing up all too quickly.
Here in Washington I am happy to be able to report that there are
a number of alumni who are active in practically every level of
government and most of whom do an outstanding job. I am sure I
share the nostalgia of all of us who think that twenty-five years
have gone by in a tremendous rush, but I assume like most of us I
am looking forward to the next twenty-five years with a great deal
of hopeful anticipation, for ] think they will be among the most
momentous years in our century.

HUGH CAMERON MacGUIRE

  

é

 

ae or,

HOME ADDRESS; 1216 Magnolia Curve, Montgomery, Ala.

OFFICE appREsS: 1709 Pine St., Montgomery, Ala.

PREPARED AT: Lanier High School, Montgomery, Ala.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREES: BSc. (McGill Univ,), 1940; M.p.c.at.
(ibid.), 1943.

MarRIED: Isabel Raincr, Nov. 25, 1943. CHILDREN: Osborne Rainer, July 16,
1947; Donald Cameron, Oct. 6, 1949; Isabel MacMillan, March 22, 1953;
Hugh Stuart, Feb. 22, 1958.

occuPATION: Physician — pediatric surgeon; founder and director, Atomedic
Research Center, Inc.

OFFICES HELD! Numerous offices associated with local civic and medical fields.

[ 821 ]

ee RNIN Oc ewer
00 en

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

TRANSFERRED to McGill University in 1937 and followed
through for B.Sc. and M.D.C.M. by 1943, then into Royal
Canadian Army Medical Corps, served with Pacific Command.
Married on graduation in 1943, to Isabel Rainer — greatest and best
idea and fact of life. Finished medical training at University of
Pennsylvania in 1948 and settled in Alabama to do pioneering in
pediatric surgery. Founded, with few others, Jackson Hospital —
now 250-bed General Hospital & Clinic and Pineview Manor —
Spastic Children’s Hospital. Originated Atomedic concept in 1955,
after trip to Europe observing medical care systems there. This has
developed a new type of hospital with hopes of mass production of
hospitals. So far have built two Atomedic hospitals, in Montgomery
and at the New York World’s Fair.

I spend most of each year looking forward to summer vacations
with family — in Maine or Nova Scotia. I don’t have strong politi-
cal feelings — vote independent. Recently have become a Sunday
School teacher of young adults — Presbyterian Church — liberal-
minded elder — which is difficult now in Alabama.

I've enjoyed developing ideas and travel associated with it —
meeting people and speaking to educational groups on new sys-
tems in area of medical care.

I see a little of a few of my old Harvard friends, such as Jack
Stewart in New York. Read about friend David Hume, M.D. now.
I watch with keen interest the growth and development of Harvard
and am proud of its record. I am encouraging my boys to consider

Harvard for their choice of schools. Otherwise I’m trying to grow
older.

[ 822 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BURTON MACHINIST

 

HOME aApprEss: 18 Ware St., Lewiston, Maine.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Clark Shoe Co., Inc., Troy Street, Auburn, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Governor Dummer Academy, South Byfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1940.

MarriepD: Barbara Gay Salvage, Aug. 5, 1945 (divorced 1960), CHILDREN: John
Harris, Feb. 10, 1948; Nancy Lee, April 25, 1950, Robert Barry, Jan. 10,

1053-
HARVARD BROTHER: Milton Machinist, ’37, M.B.A., 739.
OCCUPATION: Vice-president and general manager, ‘Clark Shoe ‘Company, Inc.,

shoe manufacturers.
OFFICES HELD: Director, New England Shoe and Leather Association, 1952-53;
president, Alumni Association, Governor Dummer Academy, 1959, 1960.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Poland Springs Country Club.

MY original plans were to enter the mercantile field upon gradua-
tion from the Harvard Business School, but during this course I
joined the Navy Supply Corps — and then on to the Supply Corps
Course at the Business Schoo] -— several years’ sea duty in the
Pacific —— and upon my return to the States another stint at the
Business School for training in contract termination with final duty
in Chicago. By this time, my interest in manufacturing was intense
and shortly after being discharged from the Navy I started a
women’s shoe manufacturing plant in Lowell, Massachusetts. This
was the forerunner of several other plants that I operated until I
sold my interests in 1961 and took a sabbatical from shoe manufac-
turing for some seven months. However, the urge to return to that
field was so compelling that I resumed this interest, firstly in Penn-
sylvania and presently as vice-president and general manager of
Clark Shoe Company in Auburn, Maine. The transition from op-
erating my own business to that of managing one owned by another

[ 823 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

was inidally difficult because of the need to disassociate myself
from the personal and emotional identification with a company in
which I had no financial interest. None the less, I have been for-
tunate in making an association in my present capacity that has
been most gratifying.

Shoe manufacturing has represented constantly a challenging ex-
perience in finance, efficiency, product development, merchandising,
personnel development and last but not least, profit! It, too, has
afforded me extensive opportunity for travel both domestic and
foreign. This travel has also served the dual role of affording me
pleasant experiences and of opening a wide vista of interest in a
consuming hobby of collecting contemporary art and sculpture.
The personal associations in this field have been vastly different
from those of my chosen vocation and have been a delightful ad-
yanct to a very pressured business life.

Having twenty-five years of varied experience is a distinct ad-
vantage with which to view the future as an exciting challenge in
this period of tense and troubled times and certainly the search for

and the understanding of Veritas spell out the need for toleration
and vitality for a more meaningful life of happiness.

WILLIAM ANGUS MacINTYRE, JR.

 

HOME Appress: 304 N. Fourth St., Towanda, Pa,

OFFICE appress: Hawes Street, Towanda, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1940; M.BsAy 1942:
Mareen: Anne Spurr Tower, Nov. 6, 1942. CHILDREN; Marilyn Joan, June 2%,

1945; Nancy Elizabeth, Aug. 21, 1946, William Angus, 3d, Aug. z1, 19483
Jeanne Louise, May 30, 1957.

[ 824]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupaTion: Division industrial relations manager, Chemical and Metallurgical
Division, Sylvania Electric Products, Inc.; handling personnel and com-
munity relations for this division and the corporation’s nuclear fuel
division on Long Island (Hicksville),

OFFICES HELD: Assistant treasurer, Sylvania Employees Association, 1949-51,
Sylvania Employees Credit Union, 1949-51; chapter chairman, American
Red Cross of Bradford and Sullivan Counties, 1960-62; treasurer, Com-
munity Fund of Ohio County, West Virginia, 1955.

MEMBER OF: Bradford County Industrial Management Club (one of the
founders, 1957); Towanda Country Club; Tri County Personnel Asso-
ciation,

REFLECTION on the past twenty-five years highlights one dom-
inant characteristic — the speed of their passage. This impression
of quick passing has been enhanced by the enjoyment of a wonder-
ful family life, a variety of challenging jobs with interesting people,
and a long list of intended and unaccomplished projects.

A Harvard education should have enabled me to help my family
lead a richer life and I hope it has. The family has done its part
to help me learn many things as varied as the appreciation of good
seascapes in oil or water color to crazy teen-age dances.

For a career, personnel work seemed appealing, but a small survey
done while attending Harvard Business School seemed to indicate
that the custom at the time was to transfer into personnel work
rather than be hired into it. A bit of good luck turned up a
transfer within six months of going to work, and I have pursued
this line of work ever since except for two years. During those two
years I worked for a large group of my company’s employees oper-
ating their group insurance, credit union, and group purchase plans.
It was a closely related endeavor and satisfying because it offered
a chance to rejuvenate a faltering credit union and broaden its serv-
ice to the employees while at the same time doing a fair amount
of personnel work on an informal or unofficial basis. While person-
nel work in some companies seems to be primarily a record-keeping
function, it has never been so with my employer, and since the
plants I’ve worked in have been small— 200 to 1000 employees —
there’s been a steady opportunity to practise in all phases of person-
nel work. Also, a surprisingly varied group of specific assignments
in other phases of industrial work have made life lively.

If the personnel field’s research programs ever come up with a
set of rules which provide even broad hints as to the proper policy
to pursue in any given situation, life could become dull. But most
of the research seems to come up with some challenges to past

[ 825 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

thought instead of building on the results of past research, and we
can count on groups such as the NLRB to come along and change
many of the ground rules periodically to keep the mental processes
from stagnating.

In response to job opportunities our family moved from Marble-
head, Massachusetts, to Wheeling, West Virginia, and then to
Towanda, Pennsylvania. For a crew which spent its weekends sail-
ing, beachcombing and skiing, the first move involved a pretty
sharp change. But we surprised even ourselves by adapting rapidly.
The second move to a distinctly rural area was a sharp contrast
with suburbia. Each location has had its virtues, and we found it
really didn’t take much digging to uncover them. It could be ra-
tionalization but a rural location seems to have some strong advan-
tages as an area for raising youngsters. For one example, my son
has proven that he can flush out three grouse between breakfast
and time to go to work. Of course, a commuting distance of only
six blocks helps contribute to the success of this type of project.

So that we won't forget all the sailing we learned from those
ardent Marblehead sailors, we acquired a camp on Keuka Lake
where the sailing is not as racing-oriented but where the water
skiing is excellent and where there is no telephone. The latter
affords some relief from community obligations which could fill
every non-working moment if left unchecked.

Wherever the Class of 1940 has journeyed, Wheeling and To-
wanda apparently aren’t often on the itineraries. I can’t recall

meeting a classmate for about six years and will be looking forward
to hearing about what they’ve been doing.

[ 826 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ FREDERICK MARSHALL MacISAAC

 

BORN: Feb. 1, 1918, Boston, Mass. PARENTS: Fred John Maclsaac, Ethel Marshall.
PREPARED AT: Moses Brown School, Providence, R.I.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Louisa Morton Millard, June 22, 1946, Greensboro, N.C. cnHiLp:
Frederick Marshall, Jr., June 7, 1949.

pirD: June 9, 1952, Chapel Hill, N.C.

FREDERICK MARSHALL MacISAAC was an industrial engineer

with the C. L. Stevens Company of Maryland, with whom he had

been associated since graduation. He was survived by his wife and

son.

FRANK LELAND McLANATHAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4311 Lynbtook Drive, Bethesda, Md. 20014.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Headquarters, U.S. Air Force, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: 8.B., 1940; 8.M. (Trinity Univ., San An-
tonio, Texas), 1959.

[ 827 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

magpie: LaVena D, Taylor, April 30, 1943. crttp: David L., Oct. 21, 1952.
HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Barton McLanathan, 38, PD., ’51.

occupation: Major, U.S. Air Force; psychologist, chief personnel evaluation.
MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association.

pusiications: Various articles on applied psychology in professional journals.

AFTER five unexpectedly peaceful wartime years in the Air Force
engaged mainly in personnel and psychological activities, I returned
to civilian pursuits which proved rather successfully a high degree
of business ineptitude. A few pleasant years in vocational guidance
followed. Then the Korean affair resulted in recall to active duty
with the Air Force. The service has provided many and varied
duties in applied psychology, almost all highly rewarding in every-
thing but rapid promotion. I certainly can express no regrets at
having chosen a service career. The quality of the officers in the
services has so improved in recent years that almost all assign-
ments have become challenging. Opportunities for original and
creative work are now commonplace.
During the last ten years, there has been an opportunity to take
a series of diversified courses at six different colleges and univer-
sities, all of differing qualities and character. Although these off-
duty courses have contributed advanced degree credits, I have
often wished Cambridge was a little closer. About a year more
should finally result ina Ph.D.
During the last year I could be found on alternate Sunday after-
noons producing sounds, not always of a musical quality, from a
large pipe organ. All three members of the family have been able
to enjoy lessons on the king of instruments, although my small son
seems to find the raucous tones of the trombone equally to his
liking. The adoption of a thirty-year-old combination pneumatic
and electronic monster in the family has provided a practice instru-
ment and a source of constant activity in searching for leaks in
miles of spaghetti-like tubing. However, the greatest reward from
college musical activities came in the early war years. As a twenty-
one-dollar-a-month private I soon learned that singing in church
choirs was a sure source of Sunday chicken dinners with generous

parishioners,
We hope to spend several more years in the Air Force and have
hopes of at least one more interesting overseas tour.

[ 828 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NEWTON MacLEOD

   

HOME ADDRESS: 5936 Long Meadow Rd., Nashville, Tenn. 37205.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Genesco, Inc., 111 Seventh Ave., N., Nashville, Tenn.

PREPARED AT: Quincy High School, Quincy, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., CU72 laude, 1940.
marrieD: Mary M. Wells, Jan. 20, 1951, CHILDREN: Bruce, Feb. 23, 1953; Kathy,

April 27, 1955.
occupation: Apparel manufacturing and retailing, machinery control, Genesco,

Inc.
DIRECTLY following graduation I joined the United Shoe Ma-
chinery Corporation as a hopeful trainee and remained in that
state of limbo until the Great Experience — World War Ii —
erupted. Joined—and found a happy home in the Marine Corps
for four years. During that time I served variously as artillery in-
structor to newly commissioned second lieutenants and operations

officer of Marine camps, artillery groups and military police units.
In those capacities ranged from the Carolinas to Okinawa. Under

the initial conviction that the war would last one hundred years
had accepted a regular commission in the Marine Corps but resigned
in 1946 to return to the civilian wars.

Rejoined United Shoe and was dispatched to Nashville — there
acquiring a wife, two children and something called “experience.”
Was moved to take over the New York City district office and
for a period of over four years enjoyed the commuter life from
bases in Stamford and New Canaan, Connecticut.

In 1959 circumstances counseled a return to Nashville where I
am working with the explosively growing firm of Genesco, which
is going to supply an ever-increasing proportion of your total
wardrobe. At present, my chief duty is procurement of shoe

machinery for the footwear division.
[ 829 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Providing the tools for the ancient art of shoemaking is a task
which keeps my knees buckled at the correct acute angle. A not-
able 1964 employ ment benefit was a lengthy European trip of
factory inspection and industrial fair-going which was thoroughly
enjoyed.

Nashville is a fine place to live — with the normal background of
social, school and civic activities, an unusual number of “first-of-
the-months” and, recently, even a Nashville Harvard Club.

HENRY JOSEPH McMAHON _

 

HOME ApprEss: 3 Moreland Ave., Newton, Mass. 02159.

OFFicE appress: College of Arts and Sciences, Boston College, Chestnut Hill,
Mass. 02167,

PREPARED AT: Somerville High School, Somerville, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREES: 4.8, (Boston Coll.), 1940; a.m. (ibid.),
1942.

MarriED: Doris L. Paradis, Feb. 10, 1945. CHILDREN: Joseph, Dee. 1, 1945; Brian,
Nov. 21, 1948; Marie Louise, Sept. 26, 1950; Richard, March 4, 19553
Thomas, June 21, 1957; Elise, Sept. 14, 1960.

occupation: Assistant Dean, College of Arts and Sciences, Boston College.

MEMBER OF: Association of Higher Education.

FROM 1942 to 1946 I was on duty with the U.S. Navy aboard anti-
submarine vessels in the Caribbean and South Pacific and as an
instructor in navigation at the Training Center, Miami, Florida, and
NROTC, Dartmouth College. While in Miami I worked on a
project headed by Professor I. A. Richards— the preparation of
Naval Science textbooks in basic English for the use of Chinese
Nationalist Naval personnel in training to take over U.S. patrol and
escort ships. I am now a commander in the U.S. Naval Reserve and

[ 830 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

attached to the Naval Reserve Officers School, Worcester, Massa-
chusetts, as an instructor.

In 1946 I joined the History Department at Boston College.
From 1946 to 1949 I was an instructor. In 1947 I began doctoral
study at Boston University. In 1949 I was appointed assistant pro-
fessor in the History Department of Boston College and, in February,
1957, assistant dean of the College of Arts and Sciences, Boston
College.

RAYMOND FRED McPHERSON

 

HOME ApprEss: Route 1, Box 130, Colorado Springs, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1001 5, Nevada Ave., Colorado Springs, Colo. -

PREPARED AT: Cheshire Academy, Cheshire, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938.

MarrIED: Avis Lorraine Roe, Aug. 22, 1942. CHILDREN: Bonnie Jean, Feb. 16,
1944; Catherine Eileen, Jan. 3, 1947; Stewart Raymond, May 9, 1951;
James Edward, Aug. 9, 1953.

occuPATION: President, Culligan Water Conditioning, Inc, of Colorado Springs;
owner-manager, Deep Spring Water Company.

OFFICES HELD: City Councilman, Rochester, Minn., 1952-54; vice-president,
Colorado Water Conditioning Dealers’ Association (currently).

MEMBER OF: Benevolent & Protective Order of Elks, No. 309; Masonic Blue
Lodge; American Legion Baseball Commissioner; Pikes Peak Sertoma Club
(service); Valley-Hi Country Club, Water Conditioning Association, In-
ternational; American Bottled Water Association.

TWENTY-FIVE years have not changed any of the basic ideas we
expounded at those glorious bull sessions so many centuries ago: the
Golden Rule has worked well; a life of self-discipline is the answer
to a happy marriage and proper bringing up of a family; I am still
making my own breaks; and with less future time to live for, I am

[ 831 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

finally learning to live and enjoy each day for that day. Interesting
enough, 1am a churchgoer without too much concern about salva-
tion, thank God for the discoverers of penicillin and tranquilizers,

and like most family men wish sometimes television had never been
invented.

They say opposites attract and spouse Lorraine and I are certainly
different. They had her in mind when they wrote the song “Sweet
Lorraine.” (Wonder what that makes me!) Anyhow, life at Lazy
Acres, our hundred-acre horse ranch in the bluffs surrounding
Colorado Springs on the northeast, has been anything but lazy, but

it is from this beautiful spot in the West that we plan to “let the
rest of the world go by.”

The older one gets, the faster time seems to fly, and you notice it
most where the children are concerned — they sure grow up fast!
Daughters Bonnie Jean and Cathy will both be in college next year:
Bonnie finishing her physical education teaching course at Colorado
State and Cathy beginning her teaching course somewhere in Cali-
fornia. Since moving to Colorado ten vears ago, the girls have really
gone “horsy,” having won a lot of trophies and ribbons in gymkhanas
and rodeos as well as Queen Contests. Dad dies a little each time they
come out of the chutes riding a steer, but I guess that’s part of
rearing kids in the West. Our two boys, Stewart (thirteen) and Jim
(eleven), are active in Little League baseball and football. Looks
like no Harvard for them — present plans: Colorado University and
then professional football — heaven forbid!

The last five years I have enjoyed coaching Little League football
and baseball in my leisure time. Actually, I played semi-pro base-
ball until I was forty- five and finally quit in favor of weekly golf
and horseshoe pitching in the summer and bowling and skiing in
the winter. Our Broadmoor Waltz Club dances a better Viennese
than Vienna itself we are told. Hope to find out for myself soon.
Haven't traveled much since my “Cook’s Tour” through Europe
in World War Il: Britain, France, Switzerland, Germany, and
Belgium. Spent two years over there of my four years in the Army
Transportation Corps as a captain in a railroad battalion.

I was inducted into the service as a private from a job in the
Transportation Department of the Inland Steel Company. Since the
war I’ve been in selling, first foods, then clothing, and now water

conditioners and water. I’m the local Culligan Man and operate a

bottled water business—~our motto: “Good Water — Still the

World’s Finest Drink.” Someone once said, “We are what we eat.”

[ 832 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

If the human body is seventy-three percent water, you might say
“We are what we drink!” The biggest job in managing a business
today is to find good, honest, conscientious help. Lazy Acres Ranch
just went into the City of Colorado Springs, so it looks like Pil be
in the real estate development business before long —still might
make the retirement in 1965 predicted in the Twentieth Report.

Knowing that I would rather wear out than rust out, I probably
will never really retire. I am thinking seriously of trying for the
House of Representatives from the Third District of Colorado in
1966, now that there is a Democrat to beat! I was once elected to
the City Council in Rochester, Minnesota, by ringing every door-
bell in my ward, and I think there is no better way to get. votes.
Jack Kennedy proved that — too bad Jack won’t be with us for the
Twenty-fifth.

LEON VICTOR McVAY, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 1304 Government St., Mobile, Ala.

[ 833 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

THOMAS RIDGWAY MACY

 

HOME apprEss: Box 476, Woodstock, Vt.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wilson & Keyser, Chelsea, Vt.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940(41).
mMarrieD: Dorothy Gannett, 1941 (divorced); Lee Russell, 1951. CHILDREN:

Dorothy Ridgway; Charlotte; Louise; Thomas Gannett; George Russell;
Sarah; Harriet. .

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Ridgway Macy, ’ ‘
occupation: Lawyer.

AFTER graduating I moved to Cincinnati, where I worked in a
commercial printing business and then in the office equipment busi-
ness prior to entering the Navy. I spent three years, mostly in the
Amphibious Forces, in the Mediterranean and Pacific areas. Sub-
sequent to this I attended law school at the University of Virginia,
and became admitted to the bar in the District and in New York.
I did not practise at this time, but had a series of jobs including
retail selling, working for the Pennsylvania Railroad, and a stint in a
type of “half-way house” in Vermont which brought me to a seven-
year career of teaching in coeducational boarding schools in this
state.

Last month I passed my Vermont bar exams and will be admitted
to practise law in this state. I am at present serving my clerkship in

the office of Wilson & Keyser in Chelsea, which is the shire town of
Orange County.

[ 834 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

STEPHEN LAURENCE MADEY

 

HOME AppRESS: 6445 Esplanade, Baton Rouge 6, La.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 4550 North Blvd., Baton Rouge, La.
PREPARED AT: Hutchinson-Central High School, Buffalo, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.D., 1943.

MarRRIED: Marjorie Hayward, July 6, 1946. CHILDREN: Stephen Laurence, Jr.,
Jan. 13, 1948; Rosemary, July 22, 1950; Marjorie, July 20, 1955.

occupation: Physician — pediatrics.

OFFICES HELD: Associate professor of clinical pediatrics, Tulane Medical School,
assistant visiting physician (pediatrics), Charity Hospital, New Orleans.

MEMBER OF: American Academy of Allergy; American Academy of Pediatrics

(fellow). .
PUBLICATIONS: “Proteolytic Enzymes of the Premature Infant,” Pediatrics, 1949;

“Pollen Survey Baton Rouge Area,” Louisiana State Medical Journal, 1960;
“Respiratory Allergy in Childhood,” Current Therapy, 1963-64.

AFTER Harvard Medical School and internship at the Massachusetts
General Hospital there were several years in the Army Medical
Corps, mostly in the Pacific in New Guinea and the Philippines.
Rehabilitation saw me go on to Bellevue Hospital and Columbia
Presbyterian in New York. Stretching further afield, the family
migrated to southern climes to New Orleans and Baton Rouge in
Louisiana. Local adaptation has been pleasant and our roots are firm,
although the airplane invention quickly and frequently brings us
back to the North.

Local community and medical activities keep one busy. Marjorie
(wife) keeps up her music concert activities mostly with a flair
for the contemporary composers. But the challenge is intriguing and
she persists with good success (although not a field for financial
success, it brings travel galore to interesting places). Stephen, Jr.,

[ 835 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

seems intrigued with going to Annapolis Naval Academy and the
girls are bravely facing up to the new math.

Teaching (Tulane), local pediatric practice and cutting the grass
at home leave little time for much recreation. Did manage to jaunt
to Europe a couple of years ago, get into a Simca and ride about in
France, Switzerland and Italy with great joy. And hope to do the
same again before too long.

Our rambling wood colonial house welcomes any classmates in

transit through the area. We will re-set them on course if lost and
offer them good shelter to cure the ravages of the long journey.

WILLIAM HENRY MAGILL

 

HOME AppREss; 137 N. Second St., Newport, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2 S. Fourth St. Newport, Pa. .

PREPARED aT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

WEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; M.D. (McGill Univ.), 1947.

Marriep: Winifred L. Wilkinson, July 16, 1949. cuitoren: J, Catherine, June
15, 1950; Susan E,, June 29, 1951; Joseph L., Nov. 6, 1952; Joan E., Jan. 18,
1954; William A., Dec. 4, 1957.

occupation: Physician — general practice.

OFFICES HELD: School director, 1958-64.

MEMBER OF: Pennsylvania Medical Association; Perry County Medical Asso-
ciation,

FROM 1940 to 1943, worked as chemist for BF. Goodrich, Akron,
Ohio. From 1943 to 1947, McGill Medical School. From 1947 to
1949, Royal Victoria Hospical, Montreal, and Polyclinic Hospital,
Harrisburg, Pennsylvania.

Married Winifred L. Wilkinson in 1949 and started general
practice in small town of 2000 population the same year, Have

[ 836 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

continued with both ever since, plus trying to raise five children. In
spare time like to read, do some photographic enlarging and serve
on local school board.

I am hoping that some day I will be able to find a goal that will
drive me to greater accomplishment.

WILLIAM HENRY MAGRUDER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 13091 Alta Lane N., Los Altos Hills, Calif.

OFFICE appRrEss: Blyth & Co., 750 Welch Rd., Palo Alto, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Enid High School, Enid, Okla.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940,

MARRIED: Florence Marie Cenedella, Dec. z, 1940. cHiLD: Paul Randall, Feb. 4,

1959.

occupation: Investment banker, Blyth & Company.

MEMBER OF: Peninsula Harvard Club; Peninsula Kiwanis Club; Palo Alto Hills
Golf and Country Club.

AFTER serving five years in World War II as a Field Artillery
pilot, I joined the sales department of Container Corporation in
Boston. Traveling throughout New England was quite pleasant
but after a few years I couldn’t resist the urge to form my own
company in the merchandising field. It was here that I learned
how easy it is to work sixteen hours a day when working for
oneself. Before long, however, the Korean War was to interrupt
these well-laid plans, but I’m sure that sooner or later the paper
jungle of government red tape would have accomplished the same
result,

By 1953, I had decided to enter the investment banking field in
Worcester, Massachusetts. This endeavor probably would have
lasted unul today if it had not been for the severe winter of 1955-56

[ 837 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

which precipitated our move to California the following summer.
Our search for an ideal climate ended here in the shadow of Stan-
ford which, incidentally, is the closest likeness to Harvard this side
of Cambridge. The prospect of playing golf every day of the
year while also having excellent skiing and fishing only a few hours
away was Irresistible. So I settled down to the task of again building
a clientele in the investment business in Palo Alto. The work is
stimulating, the responsibilities are challenging, and somehow the
bills seem to get paid. As long as | have to work for a living I can’t
think of a more enjoyable way to go about it.

One of our greatest joys is seeing life through the eyes of our
six-year-old son. Sometimes I wonder if we can keep up the pace
at our age, but I think he understands and makes allowances. His
swimming achievements may not be attracting the attention of Yale
scouts, but he still has quite a few years ahead of him.

In retrospect, Harvard indeed taught me a great many valuable
things, but it also left several significant gaps. It becomes increas-
ingly difficult for me to accept the popular complacency towards
creeping socialism and the welfare state. Likewise, I find the preva-
lent concepts of deficit financing and fiscal wizardry quite unpalat-

able. As one of the twenty-six dissenters of the “handout” philo-
sophy of the day, I shudder at the prospect of removing the profit
motive from our private enterprise system. Although far from
perfect, it is still the best system man has yet devised for living with

his fellow man and I believe we should make a rather special effort
to see if it can’t be preserved.

ALBERT LEO MAGUIRE

 

HOME apprEss: 1094 Maple St., Arroyo Grande, Calif.
[ 838 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: 201 W. Cypress St., Santa Maria, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Hebron Academy, Hebron, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1040. DEGREE: 5.B., 1940.

MarRieD: Nina Elizabeth Cornwall, Aug. 9, 1947. CHILDREN: John Francis,
April 12, 1949, Stephen Paul, Feb. 2, 1951; Patricia Jane, April 28, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Investment securities; owner of Maguire Investments.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Mid-State Bank, Arroyo Grande, since 1960; president,
Five Citics Loan Company, since November, 1963; trustee, Santa Maria
Business College, since 1962; director, Linnard Enterprises, since 1961;
member, National Association of Securities Dealers, since 1947.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Santa Barbara.

IT was Uncle Sam arbitrarily, not Horace Greeley advisedly, who
urged me to go West — and my romance with California began in
khaki in 1942. Even working as a lobbyist for the Retail Credit
Institute in glamorous post-war Washington, D.C., was not enough
to dim my enthusiasm for the Golden State.

In 1947, as a vacationing bachelor, I returned to California to
renew my wartime friendship with the geography of the state, and I
also renewed my friendship with Nina E. Cornwall, who used to feed
me steaks while I served as special services officer at the Presidio of
Monterey. Fortunately this acquaintanceship terminated my bache-
lor-type vacationing.

A natural interest in matters financial led me to establish an in-
vestment securities firm in Santa Maria and Santa Barbara. Realiz-
ing that many people do not want to participate in capitalism directly
by the ownership of shares in American corporations, I developed
a new fiscal hobby — namely, the organization and establishment of
Mid-State Bank which recently opened its fourth office in three and
a half years. It was shocking to discover that many people need
dollars that the bank cannot supply, so in order to service the entire
gamut of financial problems, the Five Cities Finance Company was
organized to consider the plight of those in monetary stress. Thus,
with investment services for the informed fortunate, banking facili-
ties for the non-inflationary minded, and lending facilities for the
distressed, my financial experience is extremely diverse — and most
interesting.

As my hair got grayer, my waistline rounder (40 inches), my
breath shorter, and my skin thinner, it was decided, three years ago
by family council, that refereeing football and basketball games was
too strenuous, and the most pleasant hobby of my life was termi-
nated.

Incidentally, the family council is made up of my wife, Nina, who

[ 839 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

not only efficiently manages the family but also supervises the ac~
counting of my investment firm; and son John, a five-foot, eleven-
inch sophomore end and forward on his high school teams; and son
Stephen, an even taller thirteen-year-old, and daughter Patricia, an
eleven-year-old whose collection of swimming awards is increasing.

Three interests occupy my free time. First, an atempt is being
made to make my three children aware of the great problems and
challenges that await them as they mature. Secondly, my support of
young political candidates who believe in basic American principles
of sensible economics is enthusiastically shared by my teen-age sons
who have an extremely mature attitude toward politics. Thirdly,
through a weekly Sunday morning radio program, an effort is made
to enlighten people that it is through our economic system, capital-
ism, based on free enterprise, the search for profits, and the stimulus .

of competition, that most of the things we enjoy as Americans are
made available to us.

CUTHBERT JOHN IRVING MAHLER

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: Garden Road, Scarsdale, N.Y. (Lost.)

[ 840 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM WALLACE MAISH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 523 Parkview Ave., Westfield, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Diamond Expansion Bolt Co., Inc., Division of General Cable
Corp., 500 North Ave., Garwood, N_J.

PREPARED AT: Framingham High School, Framingham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarrieED: Priscilla Williams, Aug. 14, 1943. CHILDREN: Laura Jeanne, May 29,
1947; Susan Jane, June 30, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ralph Anderson Maish, Jr., °33.

occupation: Manufacturing, vice-president, sales and marketing, Diamond
Expansion Bolt Company, Inc.; president, Fastite, Inc., subsidiary of Dia-
mond Expansion Bolt Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, First Methodist Church, Westfield, N.J.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; College Club of Westfield; Noma-

hegan Swim Club, Westfield.

TO have experienced the span of the last twenty-five years is one
thing, but to convert it to written form presents complications.
Possibly the task is too reminiscent of classroom assignments or
possibly a reticence to face up to the passage of time. However,
the anticipated enjoyment of the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report
is strong motivation for cooperation, so here goes.

The ink on the diploma was hardly dry before the necessity of
job-hunting presented itself. Things were not too rosy in 1940, and
the Harvard Placement Bureau seemed to be merely a place to get a
pat on the back with advice centering around the original “do-it-
yourself” approach. After knocking on various doors and gradually
reaching the conclusion that specialization might have been better
than generalization, I became a breadwinner with Eagle Pencil
Company, New York, New York. By April of 1941 I had achieved
success to the point that people were clamoring for my services,

[ 841 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

namely, those who had presented me with a Naval Reserve Com-
mission as part of the June graduation ceremonies. Uncle Sam took
care of two and a half years in the Atlantic and two and a half years
in the Pacific with the usual assortment of campaign ribbons, battle
stars, commendations, Purple Heart, and a rank of lieutenant com-
mander.

One phase above and beyond the call of duty was the addition of
Priscilla as the wifely member of the household. In March of 1946
I again started to knock on doors and became an expert at making
out expense reports as Chicago salesman for the Blaisdell Pencil
Company. In 1947 I knocked on the door of a Chicago hospital to
lay claim to Number One child, Laura. The year 1947 also brought
a transfer back to Eagle Pencil Company, the parent company of
Blaisdell, as assistant sales manager. Success or lack thereof created
a further transfer in 1949 back to Blaisdell in Bethayres, Pennsy]-
vania, as vice-president and general manager. From this time through
1960, we enjoyed pleasant suburban living in Abington, Pennsyl-
vania. Our life was further enhanced by the appearance of Number
Two child, Susan, in 1950. Business life became somewhat humdrum
in 1958, and I decided to take the big plunge of establishing my own
company, Royal Pencil and Supply Company, Feasterville, Pennsyl-
vania. Dreams and reality did not synchronize, so in 1960 I re-
associated myself with industry as vice-president of sales, Diamond
Expansion Bolt Company, Garwood, New Jersey. Our relocation
to Westfield, New Jersey, proved most beneficial to all members of
the family and included the usual complications of dental work, con-
tact lenses, music lessons, etc. In June of 1964 the family atmosphere
of Diamond was changed upon acquisition by General Cable
Corporation, New York City. However, this has proved to be
highly beneficial to the company and interested parties, and we look
forward to an exceedingly bright future, particularly as long as the
stock market continues to rise. We are now in process of reviewing
colleges for Laura and this is as debatable as anything that has come
up in the United Nations or on the floor of Congress.

In the midst of day-to-day activity, we find enjoyment with our
Westfield friends, plus continued ties with our former Pennsylvania
neighbors. Pris and I argue over the bridge table, find time for
occasional golf, in which I bow to her accomplishment of a hole-
in-one, read the usual assortment of literature, spend too much time
with the TV, enjoy an occasional trip to Nassau and Bermuda with
the anticipation of Europe in the not-too-distant future, and take

[ 842 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

unlimited pride and enjoyment in our immediate family including
man’s best friends, “Boots” and “Becky.”

In conclusion, I sadly admit that just prior to writing this report
I was exposed to the 1964 edition of Harvard football at Princeton,
New Jersey. I prefer to say nothing of the score and can only
boast that the Harvard band won a magnificent victory over the
Princeton band.

JAMES DONOVAN MALCOLMSON, JR.

 

. HOME apprEss: 271 Green St., San Francisco 11, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 41 ‘Sutter St., San Francisco 4, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cu? laude, 1940; LL.B. 1943 (47).
MARRIED: Mellie Martinez, March 24, 1962.

OCCUPATION: Real estate investment and financing.

FOLLOWING graduation, the war and law school, I settled in
San Francisco, practising law for a few years and more recently
branching out into real estate investment and financing. For a good
part of this time, first as a bachelor and then as a married man, I have
lived on Telegraph Hill, a picturesque area of San Francisco with
the undeniable advantage of being only a short walk from my office.
Life in this city, particularly in a “self-employed” status, has been
remarkably free of the pressures and frustrations so many ex-
perience. I have been fortunate enough in recent years to have had
time and opportunity for travel and I hope I have been able to re-
tain a liberal, or at least relaxed, point of view.

[ 843 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

WILLIAM THOMAS MALLISON, JR.

   

HOME ApprESs: 6 Colonial Cr., Rockville, Md.

OFFICE AppREsS: The Law Center, George Washington University, V Washington,
DC.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Washington, Seattle, Wash.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1938.

MARRIED: Sally Reinette Vynne, Sept. 28, 1940. CHILDREN: Marily Vynne, Nov.

10, 1942; William Thomas, 3d, June 5, 1945; Linda Anne, June 30, 1951;
Sally Louise, Jan. 7, 1953.

cccupaticn: Professor of law, George Washington University; legal research,
writing and teaching.

MEMBER oF: American Bar Association, American Society of International Law.

PUBLICATIONS: Recent publications include: “The Zionist-Israel Juridical Claims
to Constitute ‘The Jewish People’ Nationality Entity and to Confer
Membership in It: Appraisal in Public International Law,” 32 George
Washington Law Review 982 (1964); “Limited Naval Blockade or Quaran-
tine-Interdiction: National and Collective Defense Claims Valid Under
International Law,” 31 George Washington Law Review 335 (1962).

CAREER HIGHLIGHTS:

Active duty, U.S. Navy; served on USS Colorado (BB-q5), 1942-
46, through the Central Pacific and Philippine Islands campaigns.
Placed on physical disability retired list as lieutenant, USNR, as of
August 22, 1946.

Practice of law, Seattle, Washington; attorney, 1948-49.

Ohio State University College of Law, instructor, 1949-50,

Yale University Law School, Sterling Fellowship, 1950-51.

George Washington University, assistant professor of law, 1951-
55, associate professor of law, 1955-57.

US. Atomic Energy Commission, chief, Asian-African Branch
1957-58.

[ 844 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

U.S. Naval War College, chair of international law, 1960-61.
George Washington University, professor of law, since 1959.

ROBERT THOMAS MALONE

 

HOME AppRESS: Flower Hill Lane, Marshfield Hills, Mass. 02051.
OFFICE ADDRESS: P.O, Box 146, Marshfield Hills, Mass. 02051.

PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940, LLB., 1943(47).

MmarrieD: Eleanor Warren Baker, Feb. 6, 1947. CHILDREN: Jane Lyons and
Margaret Ann (twins), Aug. 30, 1948, Katharine Frain, May 11, 1951;
Robert Thomas, Jr., Jan. 17, 1953; Maryl, Sept. 11, 1954; Martha Lyons,
March 20, 1956; Nancy Warren, June 24, 1957.

occUPATION: Attorney-at-law.
OFFICES HELD: Assistant to president, James A. Cotter Company, Boston, 1947-

53; controller, Sanders Associates, Inc., Nashua, 1954-61; president, Sct-
Tronics Fund, Inc., Nashua, 1961-63; vice-president, Bermuda Jockey
Club, since 1964; vice-president and treasurer, Professional Suites, Inc.,
Nashua, since 1961; vice-president and director, Jamaicaway Development
Corporation, Cambridge, since 1961; director, various corporations,
MEMBER OF: Nashua Country Club; Marshfield Country Club; American,
Massachusetts and New Hampshire Bar Associations; American Red Cross,

Nashua (chapter chairman, 1961-62).

OUR lives center around a large and beautiful family for which we
are most grateful to God.

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JAMES HOWARD MANTINBAND

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2802 Ave. I, Brooklyn, N.Y,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Brooklyn College, Brooklyn, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Fieldston School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1940; A.M. 1941;
pup. (New York Univ.), 1953.

mareieD: Gerda Boehm, July 10, 1945. CHILDREN: Susan, Dec. 6, 1946, Peggy,
May 30, 1951.

occupation: Associate professor of classical languages, Brooklyn College.

OFFICES HELD: Deputy chairman, Classics Department, Brooklyn College, sum-
mer 1964.

MEMBER OF: American Philological Association, American Association of Uni-
versity Professors; Phi Beta Kappa.
PUBLICATIONS: Dictionary of Greek Literature, 1962; Dictionary of Latin Litera-

ture, 1956, Vergil’s Aeneid, a Verse Translation, 1964, several mystery
novels, 1948-50.

AFTER nearly four years in the Army, half of it overseas, I settled
down to the business of continuing my education and trying to earn
a living —1 taught Latin and French at the Walden School for
fourteen years; now I’m on the somewhat less strenuous college
side —I teach classes in Latin, Greek and classical civilization at
Brooklyn College, During the last twenty-five years I have ac-
quired a beard, a wife and two daughters, and far too many pounds.
I have seen a good bit more of the world — travel remains my num-
ber one hobby, followed by painting, music, reading and writing.
Like most of our Class and the country, I have partially recovered
from the shock and grief of a year ago, but not from the determina-
tion that we must not forget the things for which Jack Kennedy
was fighting.
In my spare time I have done a certain amount of writing over
the last fifteen years. This falls into two categories: mystery novels

[ 846]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(three) published under a pseudonym — moderately successful;
and Fachliteratur —a couple of general reference works on Latin
and Greek literature, a work on Indo-European verb morphology
and, finally, a verse translation of Vergil’s Aeneid which came out
last spring and is now in its second printing. I am at present work-
ing on a translation of Lucretius’ De Rerum Natura, also in verse,
which, barring publication delays, should be out at the same time as
the Twenty-fifth Anniversary Report. Other extracurricular work
includes a couple of operas, one serious, one comic (new music for
the lost G & S score of Thespis— or The Gods Grown Old).

So we have fallen into a fairly comfortable rut of teaching, spare-
time writing and summer travel. We have seen the Isles of Greece,
the Temples of Sicily, the Italian hill towns and negotiated most of
the Alpine passes in a Citroén 2-CV. There is so much more to be
seen!

 

HOME ADpDRESS: 431 S. Burnside, Los Angeles, Calif. 90036.

OFFICE apprEss: American Arbitration Association, 2333 Beverly Bivd., Los
Angeles, Calif. 90057.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarrieD: Margaret Morris Hummel, Oct. 10, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Gordon Rutherfurd Marden, ’46; John Alexander
Rutherfurd Marden, ’54; Peter Rutherfurd Marden, °56.

OCCUPATION: Administrative — American Arbitration Association.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Lawrence Hall for Boys, Chicago, 1956-59.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California.

WITH the Harvard years over, in July of r940, I went to work
for the Inland Steel Company in East Chicago, Indiana, to learn

[ 847 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

about steel making and labor relations. Starting in on rebuildin
open hearth furnaces and then moving up to pour and teem steel, |
found out in a hurry.

In the meantime, Hitler's armies pushed on and Japan struck. |
enlisted in the Infantry in January of 1942, and on September 9,
1943, hit the beach at Salerno, Italy, and continued up the peninsula
to batter the monastery at Monte ‘Cassino and, finally, to be amon
the first to take Rome. All this with Company D of the 141st In-
fantry, 36th Division. Shortly after this I was on the receiving end
of a German 88 and, after a period of hospitalization, finished up
the war at Fort Benning. My interest in the military continued and
for several years 1 commanded a rifle company in the Illinois
National Guard.

Leaving active duty, I studied law, returned to Inland Steel as
secretary to a divisional Jabor relations supervisor, and then moved
to Chicago to work for Marshall Field & Company where I became
an industrial engineer. I later left Field’s and became an agent with
the John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Company.

At this point I met my lovely bride and my direction changed.
I took up accounting at Northwestern’s Evening Division and be-
came office manager for the Toledo Scale Company in Chicago.

Peg, being from California, found the winds of Chicago mighty
chill, and, after buffeting them for several years, we left for the
warm clime of southern California.

In Los Angeles, I joined the American Arbitration Association
and am doing the administrative work for the hearings in the acci-
dent claims, commercial and labor tribunals. Arbitration is an
excellent way to settle disputes. Whatever the subject matter in-
volved, the parties are always assured of an expert to hear the case
and render a quick and timely determination.

We have found southern California much to our liking, and as I
look back over the years, I certainly have a great deal for which to
be thankful. Out here, we have become fond of golf and gardening
and are also much interested in politics. Peg and I belong to the
group of people who hold strongly to the belief, “Please, Uncle
Sam, I'd rather do it myself.”

The Harvard years are as vivid and memorable now as they were
then — and as I think back on them, they are always a great motivat-
ing force toward a constructive and interesting life,

[ 848 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR MARK

 

HOME AppREss: 40 Cooper Drive, Great Neck, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Irving Weis & Co., 66 Beaver St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Townsend Harris High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., Cu laude, 1940.

MaRRIED: Renee Schwartz, Aug. 6, 1950. CHILDREN: Michael, Dec. 4, 1951;
Filen, Aug. 9, 1954; Amy, Jan. 18, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Stockbroker — managing partner.

ON what now seems a fairly recent afternoon twenty-five years
ago we watched the parade of the Twenty-fifth Reunion Class of
"15 — “fat and forty.” Since then our ’40 has presumably mellowed
and perhaps even fattened somewhat. Like ’15 our Class has fought
its war, lost some classmates, and gone on to quieter pursuits.

Prior to my military service I worked for two department stores
in New York. My four years in the Army included service in the
European theatre with the Field Artillery of two Infantry divisions.
One of the few exceptions to my aversion to “joining” has been the
retention of a Reserve commission.

Since 1946 I have been associated with my present firm in various
capacities. From 1949 to 1961, I handled the firm’s affairs in the
Chicago area. During this period I married and our children were
born. Although my wife, like myself, is a native New Yorker, we
came to consider the Midwest as home and our return to New York
in 1961 was something of a wrench. Fortunately we have all en-
joyed excellent health and immunity to prevailing psychiatric fads.

My present business responsibilities involve the operational man-
agement of the firm, which becomes almost daily more complicated
as a result of proliferating government and stock exchange regula-
tion coupled (fortunately) with growth, Perhaps as a result of this

[ 849 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

my political views remain strongly conservative and opposed to Big

Government. Their apparent hopelessness would no doubt be a
source of frustration if 1 were able to view the activities of politicians
a bit less cynically. 1 found little satisfaction in earlier dabblings at
organization and committee work, and at the accepted risk of appear-
ing misanthropic have avoided it and centered my non-business ac-
tivities around my home and family.

ROBERT MARKEWICH

 

HOME ADDRESS: 175 Riverside Drive, New York 24, N.Y.
OFFICE Appress: Markewich, Rosenhaus, Beck & Garfinkel, 51 Chambers St.,
New York 7, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; 8.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1942;
LLB. (ibid.), 1946.

Marnigp: Iris Alexandra Grass, Feb. 20, 1949. CHILDREN: Deborah Lee, Aug. 7,
1950; Judith May, May 13, 1953; Ida Katrina, Feb. 12, 1956, Jeremiah
Alexander, Aug. 11, 1957; Eve Rachel, March 11, 1962.

occupation: Attorney; partner in Markewich, Rosenhaus, Beck & Garfinkel.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Domestic Relations Court Committee, New York
County Lawyers Association, 1959-62; member, executive board, Citizens
Committee for Family Court, 1960-64, referee in Small Claims, Civil Court
of the City of New York, 1958-64; secretary, New York Young Democrats
Club, 1954; executive director, Citizens Committee for Crime Control,

1963-64, member, board of governors, Amsterdam Democratic Club, 1957-
63; member, executive board, Reform Independent Democratic Club, 1964;
associate government appeal agent, Local Board No. 1, 1953-64.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New York; National Democratic Club; Young
Men’s Philanthropic League, Grand Street Boy’s Association; Shakespeare
Lodge, F. & A.M,; League for Industrial Democracy; Old Timers; Friends
of Zion,

[ 850]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NOTWITHSTANDING the beau sabreur of our generation, An-
dré Malraux, I went to work right after graduation in the booking
department of United Artists Corporation. Three months later,
having failed to achieve even a junior vice-presidency, I entered
Columbia Law School. After one year, I took a leave of absence,
feeling that the study of contracts and torts was an absurd enter-
prise when one’s country was on the brink of war.

In view of a small talent for writing (previously verified by The
Advocate), 1 concluded that journalism promised a deeper and
more romantic opportunity for engagement in the world of the
forties. But instead of plunging into a job, even a menial one,
on an honest-to-God newspaper, I foolishly wasted a year at the
Columbia School of Journalism. After acquiring a rather ridicu-
lous S.M. degree, I went to work for the New York Daily News.
The most memorable experience there was my first confrontation
with Death: during coverage of the City’s first all-out blackout, ]
was actually stepping off the roof of the News building when Joe
Martin, a reporter, not knowing I was a Harvard man, grabbed
my arm and pulled me back.

Since the involvement I sought was not forthcoming from the
News, and my 20/400 vision coupled with a substantial loss of hear-
ing made me unacceptable to any of the armed forces, I took a job
in Washington with the Co-ordinator of Inter-American Affairs,
under Nelson Rockefeller. From there I switched to the Office of
War Information in New York.

Finally, in the spring of 1944, I joined the American Field Service
as a volunteer ambulance driver. I was assigned to the British
Eighth Army, which was then languishing on the Adriatic coast
of Italy. Except upon rare occasions, the duties were not especially
dangerous, and I must leave to others in the Class the deserved right
to tell of heroic exploits, daring missions and harrowing self-sacrifice.

After the war, I finished law schoo] at Columbia, and immediately
entered the law firm of which I am now a member. Aly work has
fallen into three fairly distinct categories: labor relations, theatrical
litigation and appeals of all sorts (mainly for other lawyers). Like
most lawyers, my professional life has been largely devoted to ob-
taining, safeguarding or declaring the rights of clients to money.
Too infrequently my hard-earned skills have been used to rectify
social injustice or even grave private wrong, but when the oppor-
tunity to serve did arise, such as establishing the right of New
York City’s taxicab drivers to a fair hearing respecting their licenses,

[ 851]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

the reward was greater than any cash fee. All in all, my law practice
has provided me with a stimulating and comfortable life, but it has
not made me a millionaire and will not. Daniel Webster’s observa-
tion still holds: “Most lawyers work hard, live well and die poor.”
1 daresay that, like most of us, my greatest claim to fame (and
certainly, in the eves of my children, my only) is that I was a class-
mate of John F. Kennedy. I never knew him well, but confess
nevertheless to a feeling of superadded loss simply by virtue of his
having been my classmate. For in his being, just being, there was
the realization of the inenarrable potential residing within all of us,
and I don’t mean the Presidency. I am not ashamed to say that each
of my brief meetings with him, both before and after graduation,
has become enlarged in my consciousness as a personal and in-
violable memorial.

I have been blessed with a wonderful family: a beautiful wife
who, in the sixteen years 1 have known her, is still guiltless of an
unkind word or deed directed toward anyone; four lovely daugh-
ters; and a son, aged seven, who is handsome, charming and athletic
albeit totally devoid of character. The only difficulty of major
dimensions which has beset us is that Eve, our youngest daughter,
was born without lower legs and knees, But even this mishap has
been largely overcome. For as a result of intensive training, the
love and warmth provided by a close-knit family, and plain guts on
her own part, Eve is now, at two and a half years, walking nicely
on cosmetically acceptable prostheses, without the aid of crutches

or canes whatsoever, and will enter a normal nursery school in
the fall of 1965.

By reason of our insistence on living in New York City rather
than in the suburbs, the seven of us occupy a barn-like apartment
on Riverside Drive that has a dramatic view of the Hudson River
and New Jersey. For the summer, we have a house on the eastern
shore of Lake Mahopac. Thus, for twelve months of the year, I
face the setting sun, which is eminently fitting for an old bastard
making ready to journey to his Twenty-fifth Class Reunion.

[ 852 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD LUIS MARTINEZ, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 31 Channing Rd., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Safe Deposit & Trust Co., roo Franklin St., Boston,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: Graduate (Stonier School of Banking,
Rutgers Univ.).

marriep: Martha Davidson, Oct. 4, 1942. CHILDREN: Maria, Sept. 25, 1943;
John M., 2d, March 19, 1947; Martha L., Nov. 24, 1950; Evelyn, May 29,
1954; Edward Luis, 3d, Sept. 30, 1959.

occupation: Trust banking; investment officer, portfolio management.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, 1948, director, 1948-53, United Fund, Dedham; Town
Meeting member, since 1950; trustee, Elizabeth Fuller Capen and Hugh
and Elizabeth F. McQuillen Funds (Town of Dedham), since 1958;
treasurer, St. Paul’s Parish, Dedham, Diocesan Advance Fund, 1964, and
St. Paul’s Church School, since 1950; member, Investment Committee,
Dedham Family Service Society, since 1960; president, treasurer and direc-
tor (variously), Dedham Tennis Club, 1949-61; co-secretary, Class of
1936, Noble and Greenough School, since 1948; director, M.H.C. Holding
Company, since 1962; corporator, Dedham Institution for Savings, since
1963; trustee, Garland Junior College, 1964.

MEMBER OF: Boston Security Analysts Society; Dedham Historical Society;
D.U. Club; Prout’s Neck Country Club; Prout’s Neck Yacht Club; Ded-
ham Country & Polo Club; Dedham Tennis Club.

THIS autobiography has probably caused me more anguish than
almost any other piece of composition I have undertaken and a
recent check with another H-’40 indicates that I am not alone.

My wife and I were married in October, 1942, the day after my
graduation from Cavalry Officers’ Candidate School. This fol-
lowed my enlistment in the Regular Army, Cavalry (when they had
horses), before the United States became officially embroiled in
World War IL This, in turn, had succeeded the abandonment of

[ 853 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

some rather extreme political theories I had acquired under Pro-
fessor Francke in his German history course, Eventually, I spent
twenty months overseas in the Intelligence Division of Supreme
Headquarters, A.EF., and the Office of Military Government for
Germany. 1 was recalled to Army Intelligence briefly during
Korea but this was decidedly less palatable. By then I had acquired
three children, a new house, a large debt to the local bank, and, after
four and a half years’ past service, an aversion to the military.

Since then the family, the house, and the mortgage have grown.
My five children have groan, too (spelling intentional). The eldest
is voting in 1964 for the first time and completing her fourth year
at the School of the Museum of Fine Arts, Boston. The second will
be completing his junior year at Noble and Greenough School. The
next two are at Beaver Country Day School, and the fifth, my
namesake, is pre-school, They all seem to have an enthusiastic and
somewhat talented approach to music and the arts and relative medi-
ocrity in scholastic matters. It is too early to pass judgement but,
hopefully, they have all their “marbles” and a * practical if not too
scholarly, approach to life.

When I departed for Europe in March, 1944, my first child was
six months old. When I returned she was a lot older and since then
a good deal of our time has been devoted to helping the children
grow up. Especially, we have tried to teach them honesty and love
and to get along in a mixed-up world where truth and kindness often
are variable quantities.

During the vears since June, 1940, I have had only one employer,
the Boston Safe Deposit and Trust Company. In 1965 I become
eligible for the “Quarter-Century Club” which is somewhat frighten-
ing. After the war I started in the investment department where,
after a period of training and experience as an analyst, I was shifted
to portfolio management and this continues to be my work. It is
particularly rewarding because of the personal relationships estab-
lished within the organization and with the people connected with
the accounts to which I am assigned.

Looking back (Satchel Paige once said that this is a poor practice
for “they” might be gaining on you), I can think of a few things I'd
like to do over again. One learns from mistakes and I’ve learned a
good deal. However, on the other side of the coin, I find that there
are a lot more experiences, personal, civic, church, and charitable,
that were worth while in every sense and could not be exchanged.

I have been fortunate in my wife, family, and friends and appreciate

[ 854 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the fact that there is, as there has been, a great deal to be thankful
for.

BRAYTON MARVELL

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Stowe Hollow, Stowe, Vt.

HAROLD FRANCIS MASON, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 909 S. Packwood Ave., Tampa 6, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Jim Bowman Associates, 1716 Cypress St., Tampa, Fla.

PREPARED AT: Pomfret School, Pomfret, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. .

Marrigp: Cary Peyton Gravatt, May 27, 1950. CHILDREN: Peyton Russell, Dec.
13, 1951; Junia Sara, March 2, 1959.

OccuUPATION: Sales; manufacturers’ representative — building supplies,

[ 855]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

JAMES BOODY MASSIE

   

   
  
 

‘> é
AM, we &
NE

Sa,
iy
, Jf
2a Z
a4

  

rN

HOME ADDRESS: Route 3, Wayzata, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1500 Jackson St., N.E., Minneapolis 13, Minn.

PREPARED AT: Blake School, Hopkins, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarRRIED: Chloe Lochridge, Sept. 26, 1942.
John, July 31, 1953.

occupation: President, seed business.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Third Northwestern National Bank, since 1954, US.
Feed Grains Council, 1964; member, Men’s Advisory Committee, North-
western Hospital; member, Minneapolis Rotary Club, since 1951; vice-
president, NK and CIA, Mexicali, Mexico.

MEMBER OF: 555 Club; Penny Ante, Inc., Ham and Eggs Breakfast Club; Min-

 

cHiLpreN: Lynn, Oct. 19, 1947;

neapolis Club; Minikahoa Club.

PARKE WALKER WOODWORTH MASTERS

  
 

 
 

.< A og 9
F ¢ebllmamtaeatiagy 4

er ar

net AS
‘i he Lo
HOME ADDRESS: 29 Norwood Ave., Summit, N.J.

OFFICE appRess: International General Electric Co, 159 Madison Ave., New
York, N.Y.

 

[ 856 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Reading High School, Reading, Mass.; Phillips Academy, An-
dover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936~1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MaRRIED: Margaret Eyre Smith, Dec. 9, 1943. cuitpren: George Eyre, April
18, 1946; Alison Anne, Sept. 10, 1949; Sarah Woodroffe, April 9, 1955.
OCCUPATION: Staff executive — international trade; manager of distributor rela-

tions,

OFFICES HELD: President, American Society of Peru, 1953-54; leader of Lima
Troop, Boy Scouts of America, 1952-53; adjutant, Peru Post, American
Legion, 1953; director, YMCA, 1952-54; first vice-president, Southern
Cross Club, New York, 1964; Democratic Committeeman, Summit, N.J,
1957-62; county chairman, Citizens for Kennedy & Johnson, 1960, state
chairman, Citizens for Hughes for Governor, 1961; state director, Citizens
for Johnson & Humphrey, 1964, director, American-Israel Chamber of
Commerce & Industry, 196264.

MEMBER OF: Christ Church, Summit, N.J.; A.F. & A.M.; commander (SC),
USNR-R; Harvard Club of New York.

PUBLICATIONS: “Killed in Service,” Elegy to Parker Chesley Kimball, 1942;
“The Hundred-Fathom Curve,” Grace Log, 1952; “Coffee is Served,”
Coffee & Tea Industries, 1956; conceived and directed a year’s program on
“What Makes Johnny Want to Learn?” —Summit P.T.A., 1963; con-
sultant on international trade to New Jersey State Department of Con-
servation and Economic Development, 1963-64.

I’M very proud of the Class of 1940 and feel a spirit of tribal kin-
ship at the approach of our Twenty-fifth Reunion: am looking
forward to participating fully and enjoying it immensely. Being
somewhat awed by distinguished achievements of so many class-
mates, put off writing my “Life” as if it were a résumé for Judg-
ment Day. But deadline is here and P’m determined to be accounted
for.

In preparation, did some self-assessment. Find I have more sense,
more ability, more purpose, and even more delight in life than I had
in 1940. My idea of success is to be proficient and productive in
daily work; to perform some outstanding public service, and to
raise children who will do the same. Though I’m still off the pace,
my wind is good and am sure I can make the winner’s circle before
our Fiftieth. Meanwhile, here’s my half-way report.

June, ’40, Monday morning after boat races reported to mail
room of W. R. Grace & Company, New York; went to sea as ap-
prentice purser on Grace Line, traveled to Peru, Chile, Venezuela.
August, *41, enlisted in Navy, assigned to USS Williamsburg on
North Atlantic patrol duty around Iceland and British Isles. Oc-
tober, ’42, commissioned ensign at Reykjavik; came back to USA;
met lovely girl, Peggy Smith, at Philadelphia Navy League; took

[ 857 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Navy Supply course at Harvard Business School. April, 43, as-
signed as supply officer USS Leedstown; just before sailing married
Peggy Smith (most intelligent thing [’'ve done since graduation).
Spent 1943-45 aboard Leedstown in South Pacific; made six inva-
sions. June ’45, flew home from Philippines; had deferred honey-
moon in California; spent last six months of war in Maine. January,
"46, returned to Grace Line — assigned to Peru and Bolivia. Lived
in Lima with Peggy and children, 1946-50 and 1952-55; got
to know and hike the country, language and people. As president
of American Society, led U.S. residents in new community proj-
ects (Boy Scouts, Blood Bank, Iron Lung), worked hard to foster
good relations between Peru and USA; still consider Peru second
home. August, 50, volunteered for active duty in Korean War;
sent to Norfolk; spent summer of ’51 on cruise to Arctic. January,
52, after eighteen months’ Navy life, returned to Peru.. February,
"55, transferred back to New York; settled in New Jersey. Con-
tinued working for Grace Line until’ 57, when decided had enough
of steamship business; got job with General Electric. Major activ-
ities last five years: Democratic politics in New Jersey (Kennedy —
Hughes — Johnson campaigns) and travel for ILG.E, (Europe —
Scandinavia — Middle East — Far East — ~ Central America and Af-
rica).
In religion — Congregationalst in race relations — color blind;
in gov ernment — activist; in philosophy - — optimist; in daily life —
pragmatist; in career — impatient; 4 and in family —a happy man.

++ THOMAS RODGERS MAXON _

 

porn: Aug. 12, 1919, Muncie, Ind. parents; John Heisner Maxon,

Luc;
Waddell. ucie

[ 858 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Kentucky Military Institute, Lyndon, Ky.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 19403 B.ARCH., 1952.
DIED: Jan. 23, 1957, Muncie, Ind.

DURING World War II Maxon served with the U.S. Naval Re-
serve, attaining the rank of lieutenant. He was commanding officer
of the US LST 211 and was on active duty until January, 1946. After
a short time in an executive position with the Indiana Gas Distribu-
tion Corporation, he entered the Harvard Graduate School of De-
sign, receiving his degree in 1952. At the time of our Fifteenth Anni-
versary Report he was practising architecture with the firm of Earl
& Wright in San Francisco.

ROLLAND ALBERT MAXWELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2902 Wyngate, N.W., Adianta, Ga. 30305.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Davison-Paxon Co., 180 Peachtree St., N.W., Atlanta, Ga.

PREPARED AT: St. Albans High School, St. Albans, W. Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1940; M.B.A., 1943.

MarRiED: Marjorie Montgomery, July 24, 1943. CHILDREN: Rolland Montgomery,
Jan. 26, 19513; Jamie Brian, April 12, 1955.

occupation: Retailing; president, Davison-Paxon Company, a division of
R. H. Macy & Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Ready-to-Wear Committee, National Retail Merchants
Association, 1958-39; member, board of directors, United Negro College
Fund, 1962.

MEMBER OF: Aircraft Owners & Pilots Association.

DURING the three years following my graduation from the Busi-
ness School in 1943, it was my lot to be associated with the Cellulose
Products Division of the Hercules Powder Company in Wilming-
ton, Delaware. Most noteworthy project in which I was involved
was the development of a plastic hot dip coating for machinery,

[ 859 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ordnance, etc., to be used particularly in the Pacific Theatre of war.
This was commercially marketed as “Plastic Peel.”

In the ensuing years I have pursued my career in retailing, moving
about quite often as opportunities for advancement presented them-
selves, Have always been in the merchandising phase of storekeep-
ing, particularly in ready-to-wear much of this time.

While getting in some swimming and tennis, have mostly pursued
flying as my chief hobby. Have found this to be very useful in the
business as I have traveled to markets all over the country. Have
also visited ten European countrics on buying and survey trips.
This phase of my work has been both profitable and enjoyable.

Even as my home training has influenced my religious interests
and pursuits, so the time spent in Cambridge during the formative
years of the New Deal era has left its lasting influence on my mild
liberalism in politics.

Vacations have been spent traveling with my family i in the U.S.,
Canada, Mexico, the islands of the Caribbean and Europe.

I trust the next twenty years will be the most productive ones
before retirement.

ROBERT BROOKS MAYO

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 30 Mayo Rd., Wellesley, Mass. 02181.

[ 860 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES ANTHONY MEATH, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss: 8 Charlcote PlL., Baltimore 18, Md.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1114 St. Paul St., Baltimore 2, Md.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Bridgeport, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; Mb. (Tufts Coll.), 1943.

MarRiED: Mary Stewart, July 8, 1947. CHILDREN: James Stewart, May 29, 1948,
Margaret Forbes, Jan. 10, 1951; Jonathan Greenwood, Sept. 16, 1955;
Sarah Malcolm, Aug. 26, 1959.

occupPATION: Psychiatrist.

OFFICES HELD: Psychiatrist, Johns Hopkins Hospital; visiting staff and executive
coordinating board of Seton Institute (chairman, 1960); Maryland Asso-
ciation of Practicing Psychiatrists (secretary, vice-chairman and chairman,

1957-60).
MEMBER OF: American Psychiatric Association (fellow); Maryland Psychiatric

Society; Boston Society of Neurology and Psychiatry; candidate, Balti-
more Psychoanalytic Institute, Harvard Clubs of Boston and Maryland;
Maryland Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Six medical research publications,

MATRICULATION and continuation in medical school (Tufts
1940-43), followed by an internship in Boston City Hospital (1944),
were eye openers to previously unnoticed — no —unfelt, social
and economic disorders. However, only one eye, the local, the
“American” eye, was opened. The other one, that had opened in
college, just enough to contribute to Ambulances for Spain, closed
again or, at least, didn’t see too well.

In the vintage years of that decade (1936-39), two or three am-
bulances were considered by most to be an adequate international
commitment. Not by all surely, for I recall one, a mounter of
intellectual barricades, whose monitions went largely unheeded.
“Oblivious” and “Fascist material,” he would sav, verbally slapping
at Dunster Dining Hall conversationalists. Since he happened to be

[ 861 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

my tutor I always had the feeling, indeed the knowledge, that he
included me in such pronouncements. I didn’t understand then. |
do now.

Professionally my interests gravitated to the mind and brain, and
considerations of mental functioning. Neuropathology, neurology
and psvchiatry were studied at the Mass. General Hospital (1945-
47), followed by biochemical research of the nervous system at
McLean Hospital Research Laboratory (1947-53). Then, on to
Johns Hopkins Hospital (1953-55) with continuity in the practice
of psychiatry and further study at the Baltimore Psychoanalytic
Institute to date.

In 1947 a most notable event for me, marriage with Mary Stew-
art (Bryn Mawr °47). Mary leavens those around her. We have
four children, James, Margaret, Jonathan and Sarah.

Our working and schooling season is spent in Baltimore; our
summers are usually enjoyed in Dublin, New Hampshire.

NAHUM ZEITLIN MEDALIA

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5300 28th St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Smith College, Northampton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940; a.m., 1949;
PH.D. 1952.

MarrieD: Ruth Rosenberg, June 8, 1945. CHILDREN: Elizabeth Emma, June 18,
1946; Susan Lena, July 13, 1951; Alice Ann, Nov. 7, 1954,

HARVARD BROTHER: Avrom Isak Medalia, 742.

occupation: Lecturer in sociology, Smith College, since 1963.

OFFICES HELD: Associate professor of social sciences and city planning, Georgia
Institute of Technology, Atlanta, Ga. 1956-61; staff sociologist, Division
of Air Pollution, U.S. Public Health Service, Washington, D.C., 1961-62;

[ 862 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

executive secretary, Mental Health Small Grant Committee, National Insti-
tute of Mental Health, Bethesda, Md., 1962-63 (on leave 1963-64).
PUBLICATIONS: “Human Relations Leadership in Workgroups,” with D. C.
Miller, Social Forces, May, 1955; “Efficiency, Leadership and Morale in
Small Military Organizations,” with D. C. Miller, The Sociological Re-
view, July, 1955; “Authoritarianism, Leader Acceptance and Group Co-
hesion,” Journal of Abnormal and Social Psychology, September, 1955;
‘Diffusion and Belief in a Collective Delusion,” with O. N. Larsen, Ameri-
can Sociological Review, April, 1958; “Professional and Managerial Goals
in Engineering Education,” Journal of Engineering Education, December,
1958; “Myrdal’s Assumptions on Race Relations; A Conceptual Com-

”

mentary,” Social Forces, March, 1962, “On Becoming a College Teacher,
Southern Regional Education Board research monograph, No. 6, 1963;
“Position and Prospects of Sociologists in Federal Employment,” with
W. S. Mason, American Sociological Review, April, 1963.

SINCE graduation I have spent about three quarters of my work
time in some sort of social science research or teaching activity, the
remainder in attempting to administer, facilitate, not hamper too
badly, other people’s efforts at research. My war experience was
with training: basic training in Alabama, officer candidate training in
Washington, D.C., Far Eastern civil affairs training at Harvard and
in Monterey, California. I look back at Harvard with some regret
for not having made better use of my time as an undergraduate; mv
memory of college is mostly visual however, and includes an assort-
_ment of scenes: a Leverett House classmate telling me with some

pride that he hadn’t stepped into the common room of his house
until the end of his senior year; a violent snowball fight in Mather
Court, three Jewish versus three non-Jewish students; drinking
Russian tea (with vodka) in a room swimming with students, or
filled with swimming students, at Professor Sorokin’s house; W. I.
‘Thomas; Ted Hartshorne; .. .

Summers I like to sail in turnabouts, Aside from attempting to
organize and think through ideas in preparation for lectures or,
occasionally, articles, my three daughters are most real to me. One
is a freshman at Wheelock, the other two are in the fifth and eighth
grades of the Smith College Day School. My social, political and
religious convictions center on their welfare.

[ 863 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

WALTER ANTHONY MEIER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 306 S. Macomb St., Monroe, Mich,

OFFICE ADDRESS: 134 Cole Rd., Monroe, Mich,

PREPARED AT: Monroe High School, Monroe, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: A.B., Magna cum laude, 1940; M.v. (Univ.
of Michigan), 1943.

MARRIED: Virginia Hardgrove, Oct. 21, 1943. CHILDREN: Margaret, Sept. 7,
1945; Kathryn, Oct. 14, 1947; Peter, June 26, 1950; Anthony, Feb. 8, 1952;
Barbara, March 2, 1953; Mary Elizabeth (Beth), Oct. 7, 1954; Julie, April
7, 1956; Martha Jo, Oct. 8, 1958; Mark, July 9, 1960; Ann, July 9, 1962;
Kristan, July 17, 1964.

secuPation: Physician — general practice, consultant in pulmonary diseases to
Lenawee County, Michigan.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Michigan Cancer Foundation, since 1962; trustee and
member, executive committee, Michigan Tuberculosis & Respiratory Dis-
eases, since 1953; member, Governor’s Committee on Migrant Labor, since
1964, vice-president, Michigan Division, American Cancer Society, 1961-
62; staff secretary, Mercy Hospital, since 1958; past president, 1960, secre-
tary, 1952-59, since 1964, Monroe County Medical Society.

MEMBER OF: Nu Sigma Nu; American Medical Association, Michigan State
and Monroe County Medical Societies; Knights of Columbus; American
Thoracic Society; Monroe Club; Monroe Historical Society.

TWO major pursuits have kept me occupied for twenty-five years,
nedicine and marriage, but my accomplishinents in one far outshine
hose in the other. After leaving Harvard I entered the University
of Michigan Medical School and three years later, in October,
1943, received my M.D, The demands of war shortened and con-
centrated the medical curriculum but didn't completely obviate
other activities. That same October I was married. Hoping to be
t surgeon I wrangled a surgery appointment as intern and resident
it the University Hospital, The Army permitted me the maximum
‘ime allowed and twenty-seven months later | began a tour of active

[ 864 |

 

5
§

perme

seapeeteret

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

duty noteworthy only for its abrupt termination. After a year of
doing routine physical examinations I was suddenly separated. My
colonel became bitter about red-tape and abruptly discharged
twenty of us with only one day’s notice! 1947 offered no surgery
appointments on such short notice, so I marked time by teaching
anatomy, again in Ann Arbor, and then grabbed at an unapproved
chest surgery residency in Pennsylvania. This was a risk and proved
to be a bad one. In 1948, I was again in University Hospital, this
time as a patient with tuberculosis. Fourteen months in bed and
three subsequent years of limited activity as a chest physician at a
tuberculosis sanatorium sapped my eagerness and financial ability
to resume surgical training.

In 1952, at the urging of family friends, I returned to my home
town and became a general practitioner. These last twelve years
have been both satisfying and frustrating. There is so much to do
and the so-little time is quickly absorbed by the “busy-work” of a
general practice, civic duties and family needs. My surgical training
and personal illness have led to my involvement in cancer and
tuberculosis societies. Nothing ever seems finished. So many books
are still unread and there is so much still to learn. This feeling of
unfulfillment is my personal hangover from Harvard. Even as I
left there I yearned for those things I never quite got around to
doing.

My family, of course, is now the greatest part of my life. After
all the moving around before 1952 we are now securely settled in a
big old house which is slowly crumbling before the constant bat-
tering of our lively offspring. We have our daily battles and
occasional celebrations. My victories now are those of my children
but nonetheless very satisfactory ones and very right.

[ 865 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

PAUL MELROSE

 

HOME apprEss: 138 Arnold Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: Sherin & Lodgen, 80 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: James Monroe High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: AB. ”agna cum laude, 1940; LL.B. 1943.

MarrigD: Adele Broner, Sept. 15, 1940. CHILDREN: Stuart Andrew, Sept. 17,
1947; Susan Leslie, July 29, 1950; Harriet Laura, May 16, 1953.

occupation: Lawyer; partner of Sherin & Lodgen.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associations.

HOWARD PYLE MENDEL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 357 Carleton Drive, Cheshire, Conn,
OFFICE aDpREss: Laurel Crest Preparatory School, Bristol, Conn.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; A.M. (Columbia
Univ.), 1941.

Mararizo: Edith Littlejohn, March 25, 1961, ciiLoren: Laura Jean, Feb. 19,
1941 (mm. Theodore Cody Moore, April 8, 1961); John David, Oct. 14
1943; Mary Jane, Oct. 24, 1944; Nan Suzanne, May 24, 1948; Carol Eliza-

[ 866 }

25 TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
beth, Dec. 25, 1951 (all by wife’s previous marriage), GRANDCHILDREN:

Amelia Suzanne Moore, Dec. 11, 1962; Marie Loudette Moore, Dec. 16,
1963.
occupation: Education; private school instructor.
OFFICES HELD: President, Waterbury Philharmonic Society, Inc., since 1962.
MEMBER OF: Waterbury Philharmonic Society, Inc.

TO many people, twenty-five years are almost the same as a life-
time. For instance, in that span of time James Joyce had finished
his schooling, ended his rebellion against his native Ireland, and
exiled himself permanently on the Continent to begin his new life
as a “free artist.” For all practical purposes, I can divide my last
quarter of a century into four episodes.

First, the war years. From an A.M. at Columbia in 1941, I was
all set to start out on a career of archaeology and teaching. After
almost five years of service in Uncle Sam’s Army, occupied with
problems of destruction of today’s cities, it quickly became appar-
ent that today’s ruins (both physical and mental) presented an
equally challenging assignment. Therefore, I elected upon my dis-
charge to help our new generation become aware of its need to
play a part in the reconstruction.

For almost five years, my efforts were devoted to the field of
secondary education. Slowly but surely, it became agonizing and,
quite unfortunately, not worth while financially. No one, young or
old, seemed interested in learning or using the lessons of a world-
wide holocaust. Perhaps it would be better to accept the fact that
men never really learn, to acknowledge the world as it is, and to
find a more profitable niche.

My third episode was a venture into the world of advertising via
the world of radio and television. Here, in the world of competi-
tion, one’s energies had to be directed primarily toward financial
survival; but the fact that we’re dealing with such intangibles as
personal tastes, different economic and cultural strata, and changing
artistic standards — this situation surely permitted a wide latitude
for a partial realization of my own selfish desires which still em-
braced the processes of honest and above-board presentation of our
society and its problems. Alas, very quickly I discovered that this
world is motivated almost entirely by profit and loss statements.
Success is assured only by a slide rule for determining audience
popularity. After trying to adjust myself for twelve years, having
risen in two instances to the highest position of responsibility ( that
of general manager of a radio station), I found that, although finan-

[ 867 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

cially more solvent, my security (and that of my family) was
based on being able to cater to the lowest instincts and poorest
standards of taste, to take for granted that the mentality of our

nation’s citizens is that of a twelve-year-old, and to use a subterfuge
of- confusing statistics and surveys to confuse the potential adver-
tisers on W hom I was dependent for my living. Maybe this situation
was changing for the better; however, my own happiness was still

a long way off,

W ith a certain amount of courage, and maybe folly, I abruptly
surrendered this niche and decided | to give education a second try.
Although I] knew the same problems persisted, at least I would be
back with the people and their thoughts whom I had neglected for
years. Maybe there’s a little better chance for individual initiative
and contribution.

During these twenty-five years, what have I learned? For one
thing, our largest individual contribution toward a better world
lies in a sincere effort to help raise an educated, happy, alert, and
well-adjusted family. We grow daily more conservative. Although
our new scientific advancements prod us into questioning and sur-
rendering so many of our older heritage, we should surrender them
only with reluctance because very few things to date that are new
have proven that our lives are finding any measures of increasing

happiness.

DOUGLAS MERCER

 

HOME apprEss: 115 Chestnut St., Weston, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Ropes & Gray, 50 Federal St., Boston, Mass.

preEPaRED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: 8.8. Cum laude, 1940; LL.By 1943 ( 47).

[ 868 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Marrieb: Pauline L. Tobey, Aug. 8, 1942. CHILDREN: Charles Douglas, 2d, June
6, 1944; George Tobey, Aug. 24, 1948; Walter Everett, Sept. 12, 1950;
Samuel Loring, May 15, 1954.

HARVARD SON: Charles Douglas Mercer, 2d, 66.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Everett Mercer, 36,

occupation: Lawyer, partner, Ropes & Gray, Boston.

OFFICES HELD: Member, 1955-58, chairman, 1957-58, Planning Board, selectman,
1958-61, member, Finance Committee, 1961-6z, Town of Weston, Mass.,;
trustee, Meadowbrook School of Weston, 1950-54; member of corporation,
Belmont Hill School; member, executive committee, Harvard Fund
Council, since 1963.

MEMBER OF: American and Boston Bar Associations; scientific, cultural and
social societies.

PETER PRATT’S reminder cards have been so interesting that I
have held back writing this so that I might receive the last. Ac-
cording to its terms, it has arrived, but it is now January 1, 1965,
and I am faced with looking backward as well as forward. I am
frank to say that I enjoy the view in both directions.

Factually, a year and one-half at the Harvard Law School and
secretary of the Freshman Union, marriage, four years in the
Navy, back to law school, raising a family of four boys and prac-
tising law for more than seventeen years is a concise description
of the years since 1940. Other personally enjoyable high spots have
been our family vacations in Maine, a trip to Europe last spring
with my wife, helping out in the local government of our town
and raising money for Harvard.

During the winter I avoid being outdoors and during the good
weather I avoid being indoors. I dabble at photography and read
as much as I can, especially history and biography. Politically, |
am a “mugwump,’ ’ picking candidates more than following party
lines. I enjoy the law immensely and spend too much time at it.

I am deeply grateful to Harvard for helping me develop some
personal values (which I freely admit have changed very little)
and for instilling in me a firm ‘resolve (not alw ays achieved) that
my education and consideration of new ideas may never cease. |
believe that the future of our civilization depends in great measure
on the independence and vigor of our educational system. I regard
Harvard as a leader with world-wide obligations in this essential
enterprise.

Like most of us, I still have some June, 1940, ambitions and hopes
which remain unfulfilled, They include government service, travel
and a few others which I am saving for our soth Report!

[ 869 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ERNEST SAMUEL MERRILL

 

HOME appress: 270 N.W. Tenth St., Boca Raton, Fla.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Boca Raton High School, 1551 N.W. 14th St. Boca Raton, Fla.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; ED.M., 1955.

Marrigp: Barbara Delafield Greene, Sept. 24, 1949. CHILDREN: Stephen Bancroft,

Nov. 10, igsit Diana MacLachlan, stepdaughter, Aug. 25, 1944 (7. Fred-
erick D. McDonald, April 25, 1964).

occuPATION: Counselor, director of guidance, Boca Raton High School.

OFFICES HELD: Teaching fellow, Harvard Graduate School of Education, 1954~
55; vice-president, Civitan Club of Boca Raton, 1964-65.

MEMBER OF: American Personnel & Guidance Association; Civitan Club of

Boca Raton; Harvard Club of Boston; Phi Delta Kappa; Harvard Club
of Broward County.

puBLicatTions: Assistant editor, Guidance Newsletter, Florida State University,

1963; “Carlyle on Teaching,” Phi Delta Kappa Newsletter, Pi Gamma
Chapter.

FOLLOWING ¢eraduation, two years in the steel business con-
vinced my employers and me that here was not an Andrew Carnegie.
Service with the Merchant Marine in the ETO followed — several
months of shuttling between the beaches of Normandy and the ports
of southern England.

In 1946 I entered teaching. Six years in private school work at
Deerfield and Cushing were followed by five years of instruction
and administration in the Sudbury school system. During the latter
period a teaching fellowship at the Harvard Graduate School of
Education led to a Master’s degree. An interlude as an educational
representative for Cowles Magazines brought us to the Washington
area.

In 1960 we moved to Florida, hoping that the mild climate might
benefit our son’s health. Here we remain. J] have been engaged in

[ 870 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

educational and vocational guidance at Florida State University and
in public high schools. Work on a doctoral program in counseling
and psychology at Florida State is progressing.

Our family life, I suppose, has been fraught with no more problems
than those of my classmates. My wife has most patiently tolerated
my idiosyncrasies. May God bless her. My stepdaughter’s marriage
last April to a fine young man and her impending graduation from
college with honors are the highlights of recent years.

Golf and coaching have been my major avocational interests.
Through the Harvard Club of Broward County, I am hoping to help
in the identification of and matriculation of capable young men at
Harvard.

Philosophically speaking, I shall be forever thankful to the great
instructors of Harvard College who taught me to think of events as
part of a grand configuration. In many cases it has been thrilling to
witness the fruition of many of the ideas that I first encountered in
the classrooms.

As it must be for all of us, I am saddened and depressed by the
horrible event of November, 1963, that denied the extraordinary
Jack Kennedy his place with us at his Twenty-fifth. I shall forever

hear those drums.

PAUL CUTHBERT METCALF

 

LAST KNOWN ApprEss: Springside Road, Skyland, N.C. (Lost.)

[ 871 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

ALPHONSE HERMAN MEYER, JR.

 

ME appreEss: 79 W. Galloway Drive, Memphis, Tenn. 38111.

FICE ADDRESS: 20 S. Dudley St., Memphis, Tenn. 38103.

=PARED AT: Central High School, Memphis, Tenn.

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1938-1940. DEGREES: S.B., cu latide, 1940; M.D., 1943.

rRIED: Janis F. Hays, Aug. 13, 1959. CHILDREN: James Hays McIntosh,
April 16, 1951 (stepson), Gregory Allison, Nov. 22, 1960; Andrew Hays,
May 19, 1963.

UPATION: Surgeon.

ICES HELD: Assistant in surgery, Washington University School of Medi-
cine, St, Louis, Mo,, 1946-48, Albany Medical School, Albany, N.Y., 1948-
49; instructor in anatomy, 1952-54, instructor in surgery, 1952-59, assistant
professor of surgery, 1959-64, University of Tennessee School of Medi-
cine; intern in surgery, 1944, assistant resident in surgery, 1946-48, Barnes

Hospital, St. Louis; assistant resident in surgery, Albany Hospital, 1948-

49; associate resident in surgery, 1949-50, chief resident in surgery, 1950-

51, Queens General Hospital, New York City; U.S. naval medical officer,

JSS Philip (DD-498), 1944-45; officer-in-charge, Epidemiological Unit

No. 19, U.S. Navy, 1946.

BER OF: Boylston Medical Society; Alpha Omega Alpha; Memphis and

thelby County Medical Society; American and Tennessee State Medical

associations; American Board of Surgery, American College of Surgeons,

.merican College of Gastroenterology; Southeastern Surgical Congress;

ennessee Academy of Science, Ridgeway Country Club, Memphis Or-

nestral Society; Harvard Club of Memphis.

“ATIONS: Articles on surgery in professional journals,

M the Charles River shores it was only a hop, skip, and a jump
re corner of Avenue Louis Pasteur and Longwood — the
ard Medical School. Here I spent three years and three months
ing hard and playing hard, spending considerably more time
former, and finally was graduated six months ahead of schedule
scount of the World War II speed-up) with the coveted M.D.

[ 872 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

degree. At this point most medical students feel that they know just
about all there is to know about medicine. I don’t know if it was
lack of self-confidence or what, but I didn’t seem to have this feel-
ing at this time. After a nine-month internship in surgery at Barnes
Hospital in St. Louis, I felt even more inadequate to begin the
practice of my chosen specialty, general surgery.

But begin it I did with two weeks’ indoctrination at the U.S.
Naval Hospital, San Diego, California. And then to the destroyer
USS Philip as she was steaming out of San Diego harbor on her way
to the Philippines. We went through the entire Philippine cam-
paign from Leyte to Samar to Mindoro and Luzon and then back
to Mindanao, the Sulu Archipelago, and Borneo. Thence to Oki-
nawa and on to occupy Shanghai. I was what you might call the
senior medical officer, but I thought of myself as the only medical
officer. This job consisted of weeks of doing next to nothing punc-
tuated with periods of forty-eight to seventy-two hours of con-
tinuous work day and night handling casualties. After a number of
these activity spurts, I began to feel that maybe I did know a little
surgery.

Then, after the conclusion of the war in the Pacific, I was sent
back to the States to a Navy Epidemiological Unit. I discovered
immediately that, although I might know a little surgery, I knew
absolutely no epidemiology. It was with a great deal of personal
satisfaction that I noted, upon my transfer to inactive duty six
months later, that no epidemics had occurred. To finish up with the
Navy, I remained in the Naval Reserve on inactive duty until 1964
and then transferred to the Retired Reserve.

Following release to inactive duty in 1946, I returned to post-
graduate training in general surgery in St. Louis, Albany, and New
York, completing this in 1951. These were happy and formative
years, and by this time I had acquired the feeling that I was an ac-
complished surgeon. With this aura of self-assurance I returned to
Memphis, opened my office and hung out my shingle as a private
practitioner of surgery. It proved to be a terrible letdown, going
from a bustling year as chief resident in surgery in a tremendous
charity hospital to my first year in private practice where the
patients were few and far between. F ortunately, I was able to
occupy some of my time with teaching positions at the University of
Tennessee School of Medicine. The “first few years I taught both
anatomy and surgery. Then as practice gradually increased, I was
obliged to discontinue the anatomy, as it required sixteen hours a

[ 873 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

week. I have continued to teach surgery and now hold the rank of
assistant professor of surgery.

In 1957 I met a school teacher, Janis Hays, and after seeing her
for two years finally came to the decision that she, at last, was the
woman with whom I should settle down and start raising my long-
overdue family. Jan accepted my proposal and we were married in
1959. Jimmy, Jan's son by a previous marriage, was eight years old
at the time. Greg was born in 1960 and Andy in 1963. This has got
to be one of the \ youngest families in the Class.

What about my hobbies? Classical music became one of these
during Doc Davison’s course in college and the hours spent in the
Harvard Glee Club, and has persisted since then. During my intern-
ship, 1 began plaving golf and this has continued to be a hobby and
a challenge. In Shanghai, China, I bought a camera, began learning
photography, and have expanded this hobby in both knowledge and
equipment. My present specialty is color portraiture, and my wife
and children make excellent subjects.

My travels? England, France, Holland, Denmark, Switzerland,
Italy, Mexico, and Cuba (pre-Castro).

Political convictions? I] would characterize myself chiefly as an
antisocialist conservative. Perhaps this is because I am a member of
the profession at which the socialists have first aimed their guns.
But regardless of motivation, | think it is important to protect our
free-enterprise system. It seems to me that Republicanism is more
oriented in that direction than the other major party. My chief bone
of contention with Harvard during the twenty-five years since
graduation is the association with it and the radical economic
theories it has fostered. Let us hope that the next twenty-five years
will see Harvard bring itself more in line with my thinking.

[ 874]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AUGUST ROBERT MEYER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 164 Prospect St., Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Rackemann, Sawyer & Brewster, 53 State St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LL.B., 1943 (46).

MARRIED: Natalie Hemenway, June 29, 1940 (died April 26, 1959); Henrietta
Nichols Barnes, June 30, 1963. CHILDREN: August Robert, Jr., Nov. 3, 1941
(m. Sally Ehrlich, 1962); Natalie Thayer, Dec. 13, 1943, Nina Hemenway,
Dec. 4, 1947; Peter Brewster, May 1, 1953. GRANDCHILD: Beth Meyer.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Hixon Meyer, Jr., 44.

occuPATION: Partner in law firm.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, trustee, Belmont Savings Bank, since 1958, mem-
ber, executive committee, Belmont Hill School, 1958-64; trustee, Beaver
Country Day School, since 1960; member, executive committee, Belmont
Day School, since 1957; trustee, executive committee member, Boys and
Girls Camps, since 1960; member of corporation, Massachusetts Eye and
Ear Infirmary, since 1950, Walter E. Fernald State School, since 1962;
member, Town of Belmont Warrant Committee, since 1963.

MEMBER OF: Union Club of Boston; Union Boat Club; City Club Corpora-
tion; Massachusetts Conveyancers Association; Manchester Yacht Club;
Annisquam Yacht Club; American, Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associa-
tions.

LIFE for me has turned a full cycle in the past twenty-five vears.
Just before graduation my bride-to-be and I joined our respective
families in the Harvard Yard to celebrate our fathers’ 25th Re-
unions. Shortly thereafter, Tally Hemenway and I married and
settled on Kirkland Street for two years of law school. In 1942 I
joined the Coast Guard as a chief bosun’s mate, thanks largely to the
loan of a motor sailer to offset my blindness. Unlike many, my three
years of service were enjoyable. Essentially, I spent the time in-
dulging my love for cruising.

Two weeks after the war ended, I returned to the Harvard Law

[ 875 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

School for a final vear. In the meantime we had acquired a son and
daughter, houses in Belmont and Fssex, and the usual assortment of
accessories thereto, December, 1946, twenty-nine years after birth,
my formal education was complete! L uckily, I found employment
in my father’s law firm at an indulgent salary of $25.00 a week.

The next ten Vears are sort of a blur of work at the office, fun in
the home, w ork with the checkbook, then run for a loan. Another
daughter and son arrived, so all could not have been a blur and, un-
believably, I became a partner to earn what I hoped would be a
living wage (I am still hoping). We traveled a bit, became involved
in community efforts, children’s schools and my first love, cruising.

Early in 1958 we learned that Tal had cancer. She had two rugged
operations we hoped would help. Then followed a fabulous year in
which every day was lived for itself, every effort had a purpose and
every event a meaning. She was a glorious woman.

Next followed a period which was wonderful in its own way. The
children and I stayed on in our old home. Carrying on as usual
drew us together and I think quickened our appreciation and love
of life. Soon Augie went off to Colorado College (A.B., 1964), then
Tatty entered Wheaton College. Augie married Sally Ehrlich and
my first grandchild, Beth, arrived. As you can sce, life was be-
ginning to pick up.

Finally, and most wonderful of all, I fell in love with and married
the girl next door. Rita has six children: Bear, a freshman at Har-
vard, Robin, Pheobe, Mary, Faith and Hope. Our menage is some-
thing to behold, particularly at meal time. Last year we tried living
in our two houses. This “experience” led us to enlarge one of the
houses to accommodate all.

Though J cannot say that life begins at forty, 1 surely can boast
that life begins again at forty-six.

[ 876 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RAYMOND MILDENBERGER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1111 Park Ave., New York, N.Y. 10028.

OFFICE appRESs: Socony Mobil Oil Co., Inc., 150 E. qzd St. New York, N.Y
10017.

PREPARED AT: Richmond Hill High School, Richmond Hill, N. Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., #agna cum laude, 1940.

UNMARRIED,

occupation: Water transportation, manager, cost and performance improve-
ment programs, marine transportation department.

OFFICES HELD: Accountant and subsidy analyst, Grace Line, Inc., 1946-52; gen-

eral auditor, assistant treasurer, treasurer, A. L. Burbank & Company, Ltd.,
1952-56; treasurer, assistant secretary, a director of subsidiaries, American
Coal Shipping, Inc., 1956-60; controller, Luckenbach Steamship Company,
Inc., 1960; staff engineer, Alexander Proudfoot Company, 1961; auditor,
manager standards and systems, marine transportation department and then
present title, Socony Mobil Oil Company, Inc., since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Association of Water Transportation Accounting Officers.

IN twenty-five years I have lost ten pounds and gained the capacity
to recover quickly from the unexpected.

The war years were not characterized by heroism, but rather by
the usual round of sea and shore assignments and training, mostly in
LCI(L)’s, culminating some time later j in lieutenant, USNR, ret. It
is a milestone to be retired from something!

My business career has provided great variety. Its current orienta-
tion represents a change of emphasis from marine controllership in
general to “inside” management consulting.

Since 1958 I have been devoting attention to the art of speedy and
economical vacation travel. In this effort ve been helped by some
subsidized business travel but the project has been principally a
private one. To the diminishing number of people who are likely to
accept my suggestions, [ am pleased to report that it is quite possible

[ 877 ]

MIRE ne tennant eco ET a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

to travel round-trip from New York to the Middle East in seventeen
days, with multiple stopovers. To achieve this requires only a
modest application of the techniques of planning and research to
which we were all supposedly exposed as undergraduates.

In keeping with my interest in travel, particularly in Europe, the
hobby of language study has greatly enriched my experience. In
the past few years I have also become a dilettante in archeology,
which is inevitable as one goes further aficld to places like Greece,
Turkey, Egvpt, Israel, Jordan and Lebanon.

I am extremely grateful to continue in the fray after forty-five
years of life. I dream of bringing all my interests together in the

next forty-five, perhaps as a management consultant with some
archeological expedition!

NELSON MILES

 

HOME AppREss: 3 Washington Sq. Village, New York 12, N.Y.

OFFICE appress: Mutual Insurance Advisory Association, 733 Third Ave., New
York 17, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1941. DEGREE: $.B. 1940(41).

margieD: Doris Allen Purchase, Jan. 18, 1942 (divorced 1962); Rosemary Swan-
son Gazlay, Nov. 8, 1953. cumtpren: Sherman, 2d, Oct. 17, 1943; Stephanie
Allen, April 3, 1952; Sharon Yulee, May 6, 1954; Richard Carter Gazlay,
Jr., Dec. 11, 1949; Christopher Lee Gazlay, Oct. 3, 1951; Alison Gazlay,
Oct. 8, 1953.

OccuPATION: Manager, Data Processing, Mutual Insurance Advisory Associa-
tion, casualty insurance ratemaking and statistics,

orrices Helo: President, Bryon Road Associates, Weston, Mass., 1957-58;

director, United Fund, Weston, 1959, Commerce & Industry, Red Cross,
1947 (all benevolent),

[ 878 ]

 

P
Po
BG
;
|

&

AO ERLE STL OUP ET TP Ee PH

eoitepten oe “ot ky ag smn Neate one gene

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AS an undergraduate, I had my mind set on a career in the foreign
service. Accordingly, I eschewed all forms of science and mathe-
matics, concentrating instead on the familiar History-Gov-and-Ec.
Now, a while later, I find myself living in the wonder world of
man-years and microseconds which is electronic data processing.
Occasionally, in those rare moments of lucidity which are permitted
us in this field, I look back and speculate as to how and why. 1
haven’t found the answer, but I am satisfied with the outcome.

‘The Late Unpleasantness occupied me rather fully from 1941 to
1946, and that took care of the foreign service idea. By that time I
had acquired a family and a number of responsibilities and aspira~
tions which did not seem ideally compatible with the prospect of a
remote consular post. And so away to the real world of commerce,
first a stint with Sears, Roebuck, then into administrative manage-
ment work with a casualty insurance company. In this last, I became
fascinated with the then infant field of computers. So new was it
in fact that I was able to obscure my manifest lack of qualifications
and to convince myself and some others that this was for me. There
have been instances when I questioned my sanity in this course, but
so far I have successfully maintained the illusion.

Up until two years ago, when I moved to New York City and
my present job, I was active in the Army Reserve, with the rank of
lieutenant colonel. Among other things, I instructed in the Com-
mand and General Staff College and held various staff positions in
Reserve units. Between times I managed to participate in a few
community affairs, fund drives, etc., thus perhaps discharging some
modicum of civic duty.

These first twenty-five years have borne varied and unexpected
fruit, as I suspect they have for most of us. I only hope the next
twenty-five are as much fun!

[ 879 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

GEORGE ALBERT MILLER

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 6 Smith St., Marblehead, Mass. 01947.

LEO MILLER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 201 Mountainview Ave., Syracuse, N.Y.

OFFICE ApprEess: Mental Health Research Unit, New York State Dept. of
Mental Hygiene, State Office Bldg., Syracuse, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Whitman High School, Whitman, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; §.M. (Boston Univ.), 1947;
M.P.H. (Harvard Univ.), 1955; PH.D. (Syracuse Univ.), 1964.

marriep: Esther Ursula Tischauer, Nov. 2, 1950. cHitpreN: David H., April
5, 1942 (stepson); Michael F., July 22, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Senior welfare consultant (Mental Health), New York State
Mental Health Research Unit, clinical instructor, Department of Psy-
chiatry, Upstate Medical Center, Syracuse, N.Y.; lecturer, Department of
Sociology, Syracuse University, 1963-64.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Social Work Research Council, Central New York
Chapter, National Association of Social Workers, 1961-64.

MEMBER OF: National Association of Social Workers; American Sociological

[ 880 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Association; American Public Health Association; major, Medical Reserve
Corps, U.S. Army Reserve.

PUBLICATIONS: “Isolation, Family Structure and Schizophrenia,” Proceedings
of the Third World Congress of Psychiatry, University of Toronto Press,
Toronto, Canada, June, 1961 (with John Cumming, senior author).

AFTER graduation, I spent brief periods as a civilian instructor at
Chanute Field, Illinois, and the Illinois Institute of Technology.
This was followed by three years in the Army. Having been re-
jected in my endeavor to join the UNRRA staff overseas because
of a lack of social work training, I decided ta remedy this defect
upon discharge. I completed work for a Master’s degree in social
service from Boston University in 1947 and followed this up for
good measure with a third year in 1948 at the University of Chicago
School of Social Service Administration. At this time, I decided
both to fulfill a long-standing ambition and put my new training
into practice by immigrating to the State of Israel to work as a
social worker. I arrived at Haifa Port in December, 1948, and re-
mained in the country during the next three exciting and formative
years in the history of the new state.

Upon returning to the United States in 1952, I continued to work
in social service until 1954, when I returned to Harvard for a year’s
study at the School of Public Health. This was followed by two

years in Portland, Maine, and the past seven years at the New York

State Mental Health Research Unit at Syracuse, New York. During
these last years, I have realized another long-standing academic
ambition by receiving a doctorate in sociology at Syracuse Uni-
versity in January, 1964. At this writing, I am about to return to
Harvard where I have been offered an appointment as research
associate, and expect to be at the School of Public Health at the
time of our Class Reunion.

My first marriage, which was contracted shortly after discharge
from the service, ended in divorce after a brief period. I was mar-
ried to my present wife in Israel. We have two children, David, a
stepson who is currently a junior at Syracuse University, and
Michael, aged ten.

I am hopeful about the future of the nation and the race. In a
more personal view, I have tried to set modest goals during the years
and to meet at least some of them. It is my conviction that life,
barring major illness or cataclysmic events, is a great gift and should
be purposive and enjoyed. I certainly have not achieved all that I
would wish, yet believe that it may be more important to be satisfied

[ 881 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

with and make wise use of what one has. At the same time, I would
add my conviction that goals sometimes sought earlier in life can
be achieved even after the Tw enty-fifth Reunion. In any event,
such an endeavor, when pursued along with a full measure of com-

mitment to current and future responsibilities, may constitute one
way of remaining young in spirit.

ROBERT OEHLER MILLER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 537 Fourth St., Manistee, Mich.

OFFICE appRESS: Hardy Salt Co., Manistee, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939.

Margiep: Margaret Tull, Oct. 6, 1945. cHrLp: June Marie, Feb. 5, 1947.
HARVARD BROTHER: Edward Oehler Miller, '37.

occuPaTioN: Vice-president — production, salt plant.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Manistee Rotary Club, 1964; general chairman,
United Fund Drive, 1962.
MEMBER OF: Rotary.

[ 882 ]

+

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANCIS DAVIS MILLET

 

HOME apprEss: 170 Centre St., Milton 86, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1940.
occuPaATION: Teaching.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston.

LLOYD MILLS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1500 San Ysidro Drive, Beverly Hills, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1136 W., Sixth St., Los Angeles, Calif.

PREPARED aT: Harvard School, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., 7/7 laude, 1940; M.D. 1943.

MarRRIED: Joan O'Melveny, cHiLpreN: Lloyd, 3d, 1942; Carol, 1944, Andrew,
1947; Megan, 1954; Casey, 1958.

OCCUPATION; Ophthalmologist.

OFFICES HELD: Various professional.

MEMBER OF: Board or executive committee of Museum Association of Los
Angeles County Museum, Los Angeles Psychiatric Services, Citizens’ Com-
mission for Public Schools, Committee for Health Services to Religious

[ 883 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Schools, Barlow Sanatorium, Harvard School, Salt Air Club, Hospital of
the Good Samaritan,

PUBLICATIONS: Various, professional only.

I CONCEIVE of this quarter century as gradual exposition from
unstable status to provocative process. Mingled adversities of an
exacting profession, embracing family, pervading scholasticism,
years of psychoanalysis, political ambiguity have made this Past
preparatory and promissory. Bring me instead, then, Nestor, your
golden typewriter for the Fiftieth. But not now, no; wait; no re-
cuerdos, no elegiacs. Here is really beginning: from the seams of
our private histories will we then warp, by technologies not now
conceptualized, the consciousness of our mutual memorial.

LEON DALTON MINCHER

eT ee ee ee

eat

Lela ne TS BP

teat econ beget ea kale aka wath auras

 

echt ceria elteta ae ahs

HOME apprEss: Huntingtown, Md.

OFFICE AppRESS: Naval Research Laboratory, Chesapeake Beach, Md.
PREPARED At: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1940.

Margiep: Annie Laura Weems, Sept. 4, 1948.

occupaTION: Electronic research, electronic scientist.

MEMBER OF: Solomons Island Yacht Club, Maryland American Legion Post
No. 85.

ALE RN TE ADORNS EE, ARP NRE "

ment er RINGO rete

SHORTLY after graduation, 1 accepted employment with Crosby
Gauge Company of Boston where I worked as an industrial engineer
until receiving a commission in the U.S. Navy in March of 1942.
I served as line and electronics officer on the U.S. southeast coast,
West Indies and South Pacific area including New Guinea, the
Philippines and the Fast Indies (from ensign to licutenant, senior
grade). Directly after World War II, T commenced working for

[ 884 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the U.S. Naval Research Laboratory as electronics engineer and have
continued with the NRL to the present time.

My favorite hobbies are boating, fishing, chess, gardening and
bowling. I find Maryland a very pleasant state in which to live,
although I occasionally miss the lakes and mountains of New Eng-
land. Two of the most important factors affecting the future of
our nation and the world, I feel, are full employment and conserva-
tion of our natural resources. In my lifetime I hope to see a greater
trend toward harmony and cooperation amongst individuals and
nations of the world.

HENRY DAVIS MINOT, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 23 Main St., Ridgefield, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1116 Summer St., Stamford, Conn.; 5 Elmerest Terr, Norwalk,
Conn.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1941. DEGREES: A.B., 1940(41)3; M-D., 1950.

MarriED: Mollie Minot (Mary Roberts Reid Lowrance, first husband, Stephen
Minot), Aug. 2, 1952. CHILDREN: S, Reid, Sept. 23, 1950 (stepson); Henry
Davis, 4th, Oct. 17, 1953; Abby Manning, Oct. 27, 1954; Sarah Northrop,
Oct. 11, 1956; Ione Lowrance, Jan. 26, 1962.

HARVARD BROTHER: Otis Northrop Minot, °38, Ep.v., ’54.

OccUPATION: Thoracic and cardio-vascular surgery.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Stamford, Darien, New Canaan Heart Associa-
tion, 1964; vice-president, International Biophysical Research, Inc.; incor-
porator, Ridgefield Community Center, 1963; member, board of directors,
The Day School, Burlington, Vt., 1958-59.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Medical Society of New York; Fairfield County Med-
ical Association; Connecticut Medical Society; American Medical Asso-
ciation; American College of Surgeons, Connecticut Society of American
Board Surgeons; Society of Thoracic Surgeons; Connecticut Thoracic

[ 885 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Society; Tuberculosis and Health Association of Fairfield County; Horse-
less Carriage Club of America; Stamford Medical Society; Norwalk Med-

ical Society.

FOUR years were spent in the Naval Reserve, starting as a seaman
second class and ending as a lieutenant and naval aviator. There
were two tours of duty in dive-bombing squadrons on carriers in
the Pacific.

After finishing premedical courses at Tufts, 1 went to medical
school where Arnold Gale and Frank Lane were classmates and
Ned Drevfus followed in the Class of ’51. Then I went across the
street to the Brigham for four years, with much tutelage by Dave
Hume and John Brooks, though John Lloyd had left by then. In
1952 I first went to one of the affiliated hospitals, was on duty only
one night in three, and quite promptly married Mollie. We lived
two years in Dedham, had one son, moved to Vermont in ’54 where
our first daughter was born and I spent a year as chief resident in
surgery at the University of Vermont.

Having become interested in chest surgery, we went for the next
year to Minneapolis, worked there with Drs, Lillehet and Varco
who were running one of the first open-heart programs. After re-
turning to Vermont, we stayed three years (having second daugh-
ter in 1956), until just after the first open-heart case had been done.
We then went to Pittsburgh for a year, the final thoracic training,
and thence to Connecticut where we live in Ridgefield and I work
in Norwalk and Stamford. Our youngest daughter was born here,
early in 1962.

I consider myself politically an independent, have actually worked
only for such causes as the Humane Animal Treatment Bill here in
Connecticut. We manage to get mixed up in local hassles concerned
with school budgets, getting liberals on the school board, encourag-
ing non-discrimination on the basis of color, etc. The few spare
hours I get are mostly spent at home, or with non-medical friends,
and on an occasional trip to New York, Boston, Vermont, or to
about two professional meetings a year.

I really enjoy the modern world and our part in it, but am old-
fashioned in admiring discipline for children, old houses, furniture
and automobiles, representational painting and the ethical principles
associated with New England in the past.

[ 886 ]

(is

erg

oo Pe te ae
rie ia ae ee Lae ip RN RCA RLES cna? Selena aad gi

2° OP IOUNPHTET MAIEV 1 OUTTA TEND Pe PRR DRERISHI EOE. MEM Oana aetna ts

Rone NaN OTe tee Ce

RES
Rae

RR a ee rere ee ee te eee P
i al hic ea SU RE a ANE ag act nina ed ER Ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ELLIOT MITCHELL

 

HOME AbpRESS: 8406 Donnybrook Drive, Chevy Chase, Md.
OFFICE apprEss: United Technology Center, Division of United Aircraft,

Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Weaver High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREE: s.B. (Coll. of William and Mary), 1941.

marrieD: Mildred D. Dorf, Sept. 19, 1943. CHILDREN: Jane Deborah, May 11,
1947; Stephen Alan, March 3, 1953; Jason Brian, Aug. 14, 1958.

occuPATION: Defense —space field; propulsion manager, eastern operations,
for United Technology Center, Division of United Aircraft Corporation,

corporate planning.
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Propulsion Panel, R & D Board, DOD, 1949-51;
member, board of directors, Farragut Square Small Business Investment

Corporation, S. Raff Analytic Studies, Inc.
MEMBER OF: American Association for the Advancement of Science; American
Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics; Phi Beta Kappa; American

Ordnance Association.

UPON leaving Harvard, I attended the College of William and
Mary, where I became more interested in experimental psychology
than chemistry and began doing research in this field. This effort
was short-lived, and with Pearl Harbor I went to work at the Naval
Proving Ground, Dahlgren, as a physical chemist developing new
propellants for guns and rockets.

I had the good luck to grow professionally with the then new
field of rockets. In 1945, they were the infant 5” forebears of the
giant Polaris, Minuteman, and space boosters of our present age.
From Dahlgren, I ventured into the trials and tribulations of head-
quarters management for the Navy in Washington, where I re-
mained until 1958, as chief of propulsion research and development.
During this period, I had the opportunity to contribute to the

[ 887 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

initiation and development of the Polaris Missile, for which I was
awarded the Distinguished Civilian Service Award.

From Navy, I went to the National Aeronautics and Space
Administration when it was formed in late 1958, as assistant director
for vehicles, in charge of propulsion research and development.
After a three-year whirl on this merry-go-round, I went to private
industry in 1962 and am now manager of eastern operations for
United Technology Center, a division of United Aircraft Corpora-
tion. The years haven't lacked for excitement, high hopes, accom-
plishments, ‘and disappointments.

On the domestic scene, I find myself trying to catch up with
the family, after many years of spending more time on the road
than at home. It is, however, more than slightly disconcerting to
find myself defined as a square and accused of not being able to
understand the younger generation by my daughter of eighteen
and boy of eleven, and have this confirmed enthusiastically by the
youngster of six. My balding pate and extra twenty-five pounds
don’t allow me to argue this issue very convincingly with them.

At this milepost, with increasing intimations of mortality, I find
myself increasingly aware of the. many things yet to be done; a
growing tolerance of man’s fallibility and foibles; a middle-of- the-
road attitude in politics; and a growing impatience to see us make
advances in our social and economic environment at least partially
comparable to those we have made and are making in the scientific
and technology areas.

PATRICK CONNAUGHT MITCHELL

 

HOME Abpress: Tenants Harbor, Maine.
PREPARED AT: Loomis School, Windsor, Conn,

[ 888 |

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937, 1938-1939. DEGREE: A.B. (Syracuse Univ.), 1940.

mMaRRIED: Elizabeth Lackey, July 5, 194: (divorced). CHILDREN: Patricia
Elizabeth, May 18, 1942; Dorothy Linda, March 9g, 1944 (m.); Bonnie
McB., April 24, 1946.

OCCUPATION: Writer.

MEMBER OF: Overseas Press Club; Larchmont Yacht Club.

puBLicaTions: A lot of non-fiction in men’s magazines, principally Argosy;
also articles in New York World Telegram and U.P. affiliated papers.

SCHOOLING — war — war correspondence — foreign correspond-
ence — newspaper and magazine writing. Then, about 1950, |
started a firm trading in essential oils. Fairly successful. Sold out
in 1962. Moved to Maine and went back to writing.

It is a good life up here; no rat race, good food, clean air and the

hell with the socialists.

JAMES MURCHIE EATON MIXTER

   

  

HOME AppREss: 1887 Madison Rd., Cincinnati, Ohio 45206.

OFFICE appress: Baldwin Piano & Organ Co., 1801 Gilbert Ave., Cincinnati,
Ohio 45202.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.L; Phillips Exeter Academy,
Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: S.B., 1940,

MarriED: Phebe Baker Perry, Oct. 28, 1944. CHILDREN: Susan Cutler, July 3,
1947; James Murchie Faton, Jr, Jan, 27, 1951; Howard Perry, April 7,
1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Mixter, Jr. °37, M.D. "42.

occupation: Vice-president in charge of sales and member, board of directors,
piano and organ manufacturer.

OFFICES HELD: President, board of trustees, College-Conservatory of Music,
1959-62; president, Harvard Club of Cincinnati, 1957; member, beard of
trustecs, Greater Cincinnati Educational Television Foundation, 1959-64,
Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra, 1959, Cincinnati Summer Opera “Asso-

[ 889 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ciation, 1936, member, board of trustees, 1959, secretary, 1963, Cincinnati
Institute of Fine Arts; ruling elder, Seventh Presbyterian Church, since

1962; member, board of trustees, 1958, vice-president, 1962, American
Music Conference.

MEMBER OF: Queen City Club, Camargo Club and Commonwealth Club (all
in Cincinnati); Harvard Clubs of New York and Cincinnati,

TO contemplate setting down in writing what you have done and
what you think tw enty-five years after graduation i is a frightening
prospect .. . that’s for sure. It’s something you always think of as
being out in the future and now — suddenly — the time has come.

The above listing of family status, occupation and extracurricular
activities covers the specifics, but it doesn’t, in any sense, cover the
most significant aspects of my last twenty-five years. It can’t pos-
sibly describe the greatness of the gal I hooked back in ’44; nor can
it, in any way, indicate the fun, the fears and the facts encountered
in raising three grand youngsters — one now at Dobbs, another at
Cincinnati Country Day and the last, but not the least, at the Lot-
speich School here in Cincinnati. Incidentally, Cincinnati is a su-
perb place to live; I’ve been here ever since graduation, and I should
know. We are ensconced in a 115-year-old “bastard English Gothic”
castle, built by my wife’s ancestors and kept up ever since (to the
extent that it is kept up) by men who were smart enough to marry
into the family.

All of us love to fish — in the Keys in the winter and in Quebec
or elsewhere in the summer. I guess I never had the sense to take
up golf, so our other sporting activities consist mainly of raking,
digging, cutting, repairing, remodeling, etc. A dyed-in-the-wool
Episcopalian for many years, | am now a very active Presbyterian,
serving as ruling elder on the Session of our church. Politically,
Tam still on the conservative side. I did not actively support Class-
mate and friend Jack Kennedy, but I was extremely proud of him.
Like most of the Class (1 guess), I have less hair, more weight and,
hopefully, a greater appreciation for the free enterprise system than
I had in 1940.

My business is really my hobby, too— selling, promoting and
enjoying music of all kinds. Anyone in the Class needing a piano
or an organ, or even knowing anyone who does, take notice and
get in touch with me! It is worthy of mention that Baldwin is a
pretty good Harvard company. Our honorary chairman, president
and I are all graduates of the College; another vice-president and

our secretary attended the Harvard Business School Advanced Man-

[ 890 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

agement Program, and our Treasurer is a graduate of the Business

School. Not a Yaley in the group!
My family and I are looking forward to the 25th Reunion next

spring.

TATSUO ARTHUR MIYAKAWA

rr on a

    

Ah.

HOME ADDRESS: 4004 48th St., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20016.

OFFICE ADpREss: Far Eastern Division, Dept. of Commerce, Washington, D.C.

' PREPARED AT: University High School, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., €v#?# laude, 1940.

MarrieD: Toki Chiyomori, March 24, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Government economist.

OFFICES HELD: Teackging assistant, UCLA, 1940-42; instructor, summer session,
Columbia University, 1942; instructor, Georgetown University School of
Foreign Service, 1942-43; director, Hankow Branch, USIS, 1945-46; Japan
representative, 1950-53, Far Eastern representative, 1953-56, U.S. export-
import company.

MEMBER OF: Omicron Delta Epsilon; Harvard Club of Washington, D.C.;

Japan-America Society of Washington.
PUBLICATIONS: Government publications on economic and trade matters in the

Far East.

WITH the war in Europe heating up, the prospects of U.S. en-
tanglement in the Pacific becoming more apparent, and the draft
to contend with, a few weeks after June, 1940, I was back in
Los Angeles renewing old acquaintances and wondering about the
future. During this interim period and especially since “there were
no job offers in sight, graduate w ork appeared to be a logical choice,
especially with UCLA close by. A teaching fellowship provided
some spending money and an excellent opportunity to find out how
little economics, in spite of the efforts of various Harvard pro-
fessors, I knew.

[ 891 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

By March, 1942, it was obvious that thanks to falling bombs on
Hawaii on December 7th of the previous year, further graduate
work at UCLA was not possible. Everyone of Japanese ancestry,
regardless of place of birth or citizenship, was to be evacuated
from the coastal areas of the far western states. Voluntary re-
moval was permitted until about mid-1942, after which no further
travel would be authorized. Henceforth the Army would be re-
sponsible for concentration and removal.

Since the choice of a recently evacuated horse stall, followed by
incarceration in a “relocation center” studded with watch towers
as a home for at least the duration wasn’t exactly appealing after
three years in Dunster House, I left Los Angeles a few days before
the deadline prohibiting further travel and went to New York. As
might be expected, obtaining gainful employment was somewhat
difficult. Summer school teaching at Columbia University, how-
ever, developed and was followed by government employment in
Washington, along with teaching at Georgetown University’s
School of Foreign Service. This double duty lasted until late 1943.

The China-Burma-India (CBI) interlude via North Africa was
both interesting and challenging. The end of the war saw me in
Chungking. Ten days later I was down river in Hankow, the so-
called Pittsburgh of China, where several thousand Japanese troops
bivouacked. The raison d’étre of my presence in Hankow, as
director of the USIS, was twofold: to initiate the dissemination of
information to the Japanese military and civilians in the area and
to operate an information service and library for the Chinese press.
A third but unrelated task was to assist in the repatriation of the
Japanese. This work accounted for almost a year being completed
in mid-1946. Temperature in Hankow is aptly described by the
saying that during the summers, barbecued sparrows fall from. the
sky.

A quick trip back to New York via the Yangtse River by LST,
Shanghai and San Francisco, a visit to Washington, D.C., and I
was on my way to Japan — assigned to the Public Finance Division
of General MacArthur's famous GHQ SCAP in Tokyo. I was soon
neck deep in occupied Japan's fiscal practices, problems and philoso-
phy —a treatment guaranteed to teach anyone the whys and
wherefores of government operations. Probing into the workings
of budgets was terminated in 1950 by resignation and going into
the export-import business, as the Japan representative of a U.S.
firm with its home office in Los Angeles. At this point, I also

{ 892 ]

A REN RAN Ot AS (bite

—™

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

acquired a wife, a Hankow repatriate. Three years later, operations
had expanded to cover Southeast Asia, resulting in a shift in title
to Far Eastern representative, a new home, and several Great Danes.

Tiring of staying up all night with customers and trying to sleep
on trains and planes en route to or returning from negotiations, and
looking toward a slower pace to match my age, I returned to the
U.S. in 1956 and went to the university located in New Havea,
courtesy and generosity of a Ford Foundation Graduate Fellowship.
A year of academic life was sufficient and then it was on to Wash-
ington and the State Department where ] remained for about four
years before transferring to the Far Eastern Division of the Com-
merce Department where we are now trying to reduce foreign
trade barriers, expand exports and improve our balance of payments
position. Any suggestions as to how these goals might be achieved
will be gratefully received.

ALBERT LAWRENCE MOKABA

 

HOME ADDRESS: 21 St. Rose St., Jamaica Plain, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 287 Harvard St., Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1940(42).

Mmarrigp: Rita J. Flanagan, Jan. 20, 1949. cHttp: Edward Joseph, Dec. 20, 1950.
HARVARD BROTHER: George Charles Mokaba, ’33, ED.M. 43.

occupation: Retail — manager.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Office Employees’ Union, Local No. 5, AFL,

1946~5 3.

THE best thing I did in high school was précis writing, The
longer I write my twenty-five-year biography the shorter it gets.
From 1940 to 1953 I worked for the Federal government in at least

[ 893 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

twenty different positions. From 1946 to 1949, I had one position
for the State of Massachusetts. From 1953 to the present, I have
worked for two private businesses at one position in each. Some
dav I hope to have my own business, or start my own government,
whichever is the easier.

I have taken part in numerous political campaigns, local, state
and national. For about eight years | was a union member and local
official. My family has been my life.

One question is unanswered. Why aren’t we known as the ter-
centenary class? In 1936, Harvard celebrated its 3ooth year.

ADRIAN PULSTZER MOORE

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 331 E. 83d St., New York, N.Y, 10028.

ROY WORSHAM MOORE, JR.

 

HOME aporess: 1481 Hillside Rd. Fairfield, Conn,
[ 894 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Canada Dry Corp., 100 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Garden City, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarRIED: Mary Flagg Townsend, Aug. 3, 1940. CHILDREN: Roy Worsham, 3d,
Sept. 6, 1941; Mary Townsend, Nov. 8, 1948.

HARVARD SON: Roy Worsham Moore, 3d, 63.

OCCUPATION: President and chief executive, Canada Dry Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Roosevelt Hospital, New York City, Laycock School
for Girls, Greensfarms, Conn.; chairman, National Multiple Sclerosis
Fund Drive, 1964-65; director, Grocery Manufacturers Association; mem-
ber, Advisory Board (Mid-town), Chemical Bank New York Trust
Company; member, vestry, Trinity Episcopal Church; director, Standard
Packaging Corporation, New York City.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York, Racquet and Tennis Club, New
York City; Presidents Professional Association; National Industrial Con-
ference Board; National Audubon Society; National Rifle Association;
Pequot Yacht Club; Country Club of Fairfield, Conn.; Fairfield County
Hunt Club.

AFTER graduation I was employed by Canada Dry Corporation
and, with the exception of USNR service as a deck officer during
World War II, remained with this fine group of employers.

My gratefulness to Harvard College has grown mightily each year
since receiving my degree. Harvard was so good to me and IJ kick
myself regularly for not having done more for the College during
my years there. I’m sure that I am not alone when I tell friends
that it would be so good to have the privilege of again having those
original four years to do once more.

My son graduated in 1963 and he loves every facet of the College
— even the bricks, stones and mortar! He is now at the Duke Uni-
versity Law School in his second year and both parents and son are
very happy. Having been educated through college in New Eng-
land, we feel that further advanced education in his general native
area is excellent experience since he is fortunate to be in a superb
graduate school. °

Our daughter Mary is receiving fine instruction at a school in the
Fairfield area and we are glad to have her at home prior to college
which will be in the New England area.

As life goes on, we find that there is far too little time for the
many hobbies and educational interests that we, as parents, have
available to us. Our interests do range from the sea to photography,
hunting, fishing, astronomy, reading and athletics.

We love life and all living creatures. Harvard has been, in my
opinion, the catalyst for the good things in our lives. I shall always

[ 895 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

be grateful and appreciative to this great driving force in American
life and I hope to do more and more for Harvard as time and funds
permit.

ALOYSIUS RICHARD MORAN

     

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 818 Congress St., Portland, Maine,
PREPARED AT: Deering High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1938-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940,

UNMARRIED,

OCCUPATION: Apartment owner.

I SERVED four years in the Army during World War II and
was in an Army Hospital in France, After the war was over I
worked for the Army Hospital Service in Washington, D.C., until
1958 when I returned to Maine. After working one year for the
Auto Registration Office in Augusta, Maine, I returned to Portland,
Maine, and purchased an apartment house at 818 Congress Street,
where I am at present.

I am still a Catholic, but believe that a monarchy is the best form
of government. .

[ 896 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN PIERPONT MORGAN, II

 

HOME ApprEss: Cleft Road, Oyster Bay, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADpREss: Morgan Guaranty Trust Co. of New York, 23 Wall St, New
York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarrigeD: Claire Ober, Aug. 26, 1944. CHILDREN: Junius Spencer, zd, May 24,
1947; John Pierpont, 3d, March 20, 1950; Linda Louise, Jan. 3, 1953; Fred-
erick Converse, Oct. 25, 1954.

occupation: Banker; vice-president, Morgan Guaranty Trust Company of New
York.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Atlantic Mutual Insurance Company, Brooks School,
North Andover, Mass., Green Vale School, Long Island, N.Y., North
Country School, Lake Placid, N.Y.; director, Centennial Insurance Com-
pany; vice-president and trustee, Pierpont Morgan Library; treasurer and
trustee, American Foundation for the Blind, Inc.; treasurer and manager,
Havens Relief Fund Society; vestryman and treasurer, St. John’s of Lat-
tingtown, Long Island, N.Y.; trustee, Incorporated Village of Mill Neck,
Long Island, N.Y.

MEMBER OF: New York Yacht Club, New York City; Seawannaka Corinthian
Yacht Club, Oyster Bay, Long Island, N.Y.; The Creek Club, Locust Val-
ley, Long Island, N.Y.

ATTENDED Yale Law School for one year following graduation,
but I was called to active duty in the Navy during the summer of
1941, having taken ROTC while at college. With the Navy from
ro41 through March, 1946, serving as CO and exec., various anti-
submarine vessels in Atlantic coastal waters, Pacific (New Guinea,
Borneo, Philippines, Okinawa) and China Sea, being detached from
my final billet as exec, on a destroyer escort in Hong Kong in
December, 1945. Married Claire Ober from Baltimore in August,
1944. Upon release from active duty in March, 1946, went to work

[ 897 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

for J. P. Morgan & Company, presently Morgan Guaranty Trust
Company of New York.

Principal interests: family and business. Principal hobbies: art,
literature, sailing, duck hunting.

The samples of expected autobiography are enough to be genuine
sources of alarm to those not thoroughly versed in the art of the
scribe.

Our world has certainly made tremendous strides in the areas of
social relations, and in literary, material and scientific fields since

1940, but we must be certain that a true sense of moral values based
‘on a practical application of religious beliefs and standards is
maintained if we are to continue to grow spiritually in this country.
At the same time, we should be tolerant enough to recognize that
people in other less developed countries may not be able to live
under the same form of government as ourselves. We should cer-
tainly stand firm against a philosophy which denies the existence
of forces greater and finer than the limits of man’s horizons.

MAXWELL MORGAN

 

HOME ApprEss: 15 Sheffield Ave., Pawtucket, R.I.

OFFice apprEss: Marion Manufacturing Co., Inc., 128 N. Main St., Providence,
RL 02903.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938.

marrizd: E, Barbara Blistein, Jan, 11, 1945. cHILpREN: Robbie, Nov. 7, 1946;
Michael Jay, April 15, 1953.

occupation: President, Marion Manufacturing Company, Inc., manufacturers
of slipcovers, bedspreads, draperies,

MY daughter Robbie is a freshman at Wheaton College, Norton,
[ 898 ]

| | — |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Massachusetts, and my son Michael tells me he is going to Yale. My
wife likes to sit by the country club pool and I like to be on the golf

course.

SAMUEL WHEELER MORRIS

 

HOME ADDRESS: Box 360, R.D. z, Pottstown, Pa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Morgan, Lewis & Bockius, 2107 Fidelity-Philadelphia Bldg.
Philadelphia, Pa. 19109.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; LL.B. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
1949.

MARRIED: Eleanor May Jones, Dec. 17, 1941. CHILDREN: Samuel Wheeler, Jr,
June 5, 1943; Barbara Warden, Feb. 27, 1945; Eleanor, May 29, 19473
George Milton Jones, Oct. 15, 1950; Cooper Howell, April 12, 1953; May
Laura, July 30, 1956; Christopher Llewellyn, Oct. 15, 1960.

HARVARD SON: Samuel Wheeler Morris, Jr., 66.

occupation: Attorney-at-law; partner, Morgan, Lewis & Bockuus.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Waldorf Educational Foundation; director and secre-
tary-treasurer, Kimberton Farms School; trustee, Emerson College, Forest
Row, Sussex, England; trustee, Steiner Educational Foundation; secretary
and member of board, Northern Chester County Joint School Authority;
member, Chester County Board of Assistance and its Citizens Advisory
Committee; member of vestry, St. Mary’s Church, Warwick, Pa.; trustee,
Philadelphia Divinity School; vice-president and board member, Seamen's
Church Institute; trustee and counsel, American Cancer Society, Phila-
delphia Division, Inc.; member, Freedom of Expression Committee, Greater

Philadelphia Branch, American Civil Liberties Union.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I attended the University of Pennsylvania
Law School for a few months, and then joined the Army, returning
to civilian life, and to law school, some six years later. In the mean-
time, my wife and I had bought a farm and after the war we built

[ 899 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF IQ40

up a dairy herd. Somehow [ have managed to continue these two
conflicting activities — practising law and farming — ever since,
which, along with commuting between the two (several hours every
day), helping my wife to raise our children and engaging in the
various Civic, charitable and similar activities which scem to be an
inevitable part of an existence, have kept me pretty busy.

Looking back on the last twenty-five vears, it seems to me that
the most important thing has just been hiving itself, particularly the
fascination of our own family life, meeting the many people of
differing background and viewpoints whose paths have crossed ours,
and the process of learning new facts and new ideas. Back in the
ivory tower of our celebrated indifference, one never imagined life
could be so interesting. It seems, however, that stale habit and in-
difference may well be our most insidious and deadly enemies, and
that we must guard constantly against falling into the fallacy of

“nothing but.” Intellectually this appears to call for a commitment
to continuous search for know ledge and meaning, and a refusal to
accept any conclusion as more than provisional, Even more it means
a determined effort to recapture from our childhood, and maintain,
the attitude of wonder and the feeling of freshness which make the
search worthwhile.

+ WILBUR IRVING MOSHENBERG

 

Born: May 15, 1920, Cambridge, Mass. paaknts
Baker.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B, 1440,

piep; Oct. 16, 1943, Boston, Mass,

: Benjamin Moshenberg, Dora

{ goo J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER graduation Moshenberg was employed by the Boston
Woven Hose & Rubber Company until a few months before his

death.

ROSCOE SEARLS MOSIMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3439 Perkins Lane W., Seattle, Wash. 98199.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1001 Broadway, Seattle, Wash. 98122.

TRANSFERRED FROM: University of Washington, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940, M.D. (Johns Hopkins Univ.),
1943; M.M.s. (Tulane Univ.), 1951.

MarriED: Margaretta Biddle, March 12, 1949. CHILDREN: Charles Welcome,
Feb, 18, 1955; Edgar Orr, May 28, 1956, Sarah Ann, Feb. 16, 1957.

occuPATION: Physician, orthopaedic surgery.
MEMBER oF: American Academy of Orthopaedic Surgeons; various local and

regional medical associations,

EDWIN H. MOSLER, JR.

 

HOME aApprEss:; 150 Central Pk., S., New York, N.Y. roo1g,

[ got ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

oFFIce aDorEss: Mosler Safe Co, 320 Park Ave, New York, N.Y. 10022.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1940,

UNMARRIED.

occuPaTion: Chairman of the board, Mosler Safe Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman and director, Mosler Safe Company, Mosler Lock
Company, Mosler Research Products, Inc.; president and director, Mosler
Internacional, S.A. Mosler Dropository Corporation; vice-president and
trustee, Mosler Foundation, Inc.; trustee, Junior Achievement Foundation;
vice-chairman of the board, Junior Achievement, Inc.; charter member,
director and treasurer, Council for Independent School Aid; trustee,
Columbia Grammar School; member, board of directors, National Foot-
ball Foundation and Hall of Fame; president and director, Sportsmanship
Brotherhood, Inc.; chairman, Metropolitan New York Committee for the
1964 Olympic Games; chairman of Industrial Committee, life member,
member, Survey Appraisal Committee, Amateur Athletic Union; chairman,
US. Committee, International Recreation Association; director, National
Collegiate Baseball Foundation, member, board of trustees, National Art i
Museum of Sport, Inc.; member of board, Pop Warner Little Scholars, :
Inc., Touchdown Club of New York; member, executive committee, Safe
Manufacturers National Association; member, Industry Advisory Board,
Underwriters’ Laboratories, Inc., member, Advisory Council, National
Thrift Council; member, Alumni Council, Phillips Exeter Alumni Asso-
ciation.

MEMBER OF: Young Presidents Organization, Touchdown Club of Washing-
ton, D.C.

 

AFTER several months and many false starts, I have come to the
conclusion that I could easily write an autobiography or summarize
the past twenty-five years of my life in two sentences; but to con-
dense one, or expand the other, into a short article is impossible.
Nevertheless, I suppose something has to be said for the record, so
what follows is my best effort to account for myself since gradua-
tion from Harvard:

Family —This is an easy one, because there just isn’t any. I
remain a happy, old bachelor. I’m not sure why, but I suspect it’s
because first I wasn’t in any hurry, then I got too busy, and now
it’s too late. At any rate, at this stage of the game, I would say
there are also no prospects because I seriously doubt if I would be
willing to make the necessary concessions in what I have considered
a very enjoyable life. P've come to agree with what somebody else
once said, that “marriage is a complication of an otherwise very
pleasant relationship.” .

Business — Being the fourth generation of a family that has always
been in the same business relieved me of worrying about what I was
going to do when J graduated from college. I went directly from

[ 902 |

SLOT TS SASHA TT TN ~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Eliot House to the New York World’s Fair (1940), where our
company had an exhibit, and from there to our factory in Hamilton,
Ohio. There was a minor interruption caused by certain Japanese
and German people, but I pass over that because it only lasted six
months in my case. But for that interruption, I have worked con-
tinuously for the Mosler Safe Company, as a good son should.

I don’t think it was too easy, but the results were not exactly
unpredictable, I went from the factory in Ohio, to the New York
office, to the management of a subsidiary company in Syracuse,
New York, and back to New York; and at the same time, I pro-
gressed from the boss’s son to the boss. When my father died in
1952, I became president of the company; and in 1961, chairman of
the board, mostly in order to give my brother a break.

Like everyone else, in those years we have expanded and diversi-
fied to some extent but whether it’s safes and bank vaults, alarms,
photographic surveillance, or document retrieval, it all boils down
to the same thing — don’t let them tell you crime doesn’t pay be-
cause that’s how I’ve been making my living.

Extracurricular Activities Over the years I have, of course,
developed certain philosophies and positive opinions about how the
world turns. I thought about it long ago, but I guess it’s best ex-
pressed by the lines in the current Broadway show “Hello Dolly”

— “Money, you should pardon the expression, is like manure. It’s
not worth a thing unless its spread around encouraging other things
to grow.”

What funds I don’t spend on myself, trying to live reasonably
comfortably, I have tried to pass around to worthwhile organiza-
tions who seem to be doing something about causes that I think are
important.

For a long time, I have worried:about what some people call
creeping socialism and the lack of understanding or appreciation of
this free enterprise system that I am very happy to live in. If more
people knew what it was all about, maybe we could be surer of its
preservation, so one of my time-consuming activities has béen a
youth education program called Junior Achievement, which is de-
signed to spread the word among the thinking high school students
of this country.

I have also been a considerable sports fan and have been impressed
by the community benefits of successful athletic teams. It brings
pride and the school spirit atmosphere that I think is worth a lot,
which accounts for my involvement in the various sports activities

[ 903 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

listed above. Of course, 1 try to keep these things on a high plane,
which is why there is emphasis not on sports alone but also on the
values of them and good sportsmanship.

I have always felt that I would have had a much cougher time at
Harvard had I not gone to Exeter first, and this gave me an appre-
ciation for both Exeter and the independent schools, which 1 now
express in activity in the Exeter Alumni Association, the Council for
Independent School Aid, Inc., trusteeship in the Columbia Gram-
mar School of New York City, etc., and at the same time I tried to
use some of my funds, not otherwise needed, to make sure that
others get some of the breaks that I had, and I am a little proud of
what I call my family which consists of some sixteen or so people
who have received scholarships from me and, I am also proud to
sav, have done pretty well with them.

Except that I collect antique mechanical penny banks, my extra-
curricular activities are my hobbies, and I guess that is the whole
story,

It’s been a wonderful twenty-five years. I have enjoyed almost
every minute of it. I don’t think I’ve learned too much, and [’m
not sure how much of my education I have used, but I don’t regret it.

I have lost track of most of my classmates, which is unfortunate,
but if getting this article in the Reunion book re-establishes some
of those contacts, then all of my brain-racking will have been
worthwhile.

HERBERT JAQUES MOTLEY

   

HOME ADDRESS: 1051 South St, Needham 92, Mass,
OFFICE Abpress: First National Bank of Boston, 210 Berkeley St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass, ,

[ 904 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.
MarrigD: Catharine A. Little, Dec. 27, 1941. CHILDREN: Herbert Jaques, Jr, May
8, 1943; Eleanor Wheeler, March 5, 1947; George Bruce, Dec. 7, 1951.

HARVARD SON: Herbert Jaques Motley, Jr., 65.
HARVARD BROTHERS: Edward Motley, Jr., ’36, M.B.A., 38; Thomas Motley, 2d, ’38.
occupation: Branch officer, First National Bank of Boston.

PAUL ARTHUR MOYLAN

eee

  

HOME apoprEss: 1 Carol Ct., Potsdam, N.Y.
OFFICE AppDRESS: Language House, State University Teachers College, Potsdam,

N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; A.M. 1942; PHD. (Univ. of
Michigan), 1957.

MARRIED: Loretta A. Walker, Dec. 28, 1962.

occupation: Professor of languages, State University Teachers College.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association of America; American Association
of Teachers of French and Teachers of Spanish.

PUBLICATIONS: One professional article accepted by French Review for spring

’65 publication.

SURELY the most important and the most significant event of my
life was my marriage in December, 1962, on my forty-fourth birth-
day. It was only then that I became acutely aware of how sterile
my life had been before. But I was glad that I had waited so long;
that I had not married just anyone, because people kept telling me
that I should marry. I was glad, too, that I had been able success-
fully to resist the importunate ministrations of a number of predatory
women, most of whom had already married at least once unsuccess-
fully, and who, it was only too painfully obvious, were less in-
terested in how much they could affirm me as how comfortable
they could be at my expense, even at the cost of trying to convince

[ 905 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

DICK HOWARD MUDGE, JR.

  

Bic natin ‘ site nin a

4OME appress: 736 Randle Se., Edwardsville, Ill.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bank of Edwardsville Bldg., Edwardsville, Ill.

>REPARED AT: Edwardsville High School, Edwardsville, Il.

NEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940(41); J.o. (Northwestern
Univ.), 1947.

MARRIED: Jeanne Godfrey, July 20, 1946. CHILDREN: Carolyn, Nov. 16, 1947;
Suzanne, Jan. 11, 1950; Dick Howard, 3d, June 12, 1951; Thomas G., Sept.
12, 1955.

occupation: Lawyer, general trial practice in state and federal courts, since
1947.

OFFICES HELD: State’s attorney, Madison County, Illinois, 1956-64; member,
Committee on Bill of Rights, Illinois State Bar Association, 1965; member,
Joint Committee to revise the Illinois Criminal Code, Illinois State and
Chicago Bar Associations, 1958-461; member, board of editors, Illinois
Democratic Forum (political magazine); member, board of directors, Ed-
wardsville National Bank & Trust Company; president, Madison County
Bar Association, 1963-64; consultant, Southern Illinois University Center
for Study of Crime, Delinquency and Corrections, 1965.

MEMBER OF: American, Illinois and Madison County Bar Associations,

PVE thought about this Report off and on for twenty-five years,
the zero hour has arrived, and I’m not ready. Perhaps the total of
all our experience would warrant some valid conclusions and serve
as a useful guide to the present college generation and even to
Harvard, that great impersonal brain machine, intent on pursuing
the fiction of treating children as adults and then pointing with
pride to the accomplishments and contributions of some of its
graduates years later. This is not to say Harvard isn’t the best
school in America just because 1 got a lousy education there, but
let's face it — the College has a pretty good recruiting program.
Do you want your boy to go to Harvard? I would if I was sure

[ 908 ]

 

rp

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

he’d make the kind of friends I did. And Pd hope the school would
prick his curiosity and stimulate his desire for knowledge about any
subjects, no matter how irrelevant. It is rather obvious that the
faculty didn’t get through to me. We were both satisfied at the
time. The teachers (if you will pardon the expression) drew their
pay, were free to pontificate in the lecture hall without fear of con-
tradiction, and write their trade papers in Widener. I (and perhaps
you) got my academic kicks by juicing up the old brain with last
minute cramming (and Tom Pressly’s notes) beating the system —
and getting three C’s, an occasional D, and that blank check from
home sublime.

In a spirit of cooperation with Peter Pratt who demanded some
kind of a report on what the hell those of us who really work do
for a living, I try law suits when the other side won't give up. I
spend a lot of time in court. My nine-year-old boy Tommy has
trouble understanding why I get paid for talking to people because
he gets nothing for talking twelve hours a day, except from his
teacher. His mother talks a lot, too, and plays the guitar. She’s
very churchy, Episcopal you know, and is feeling great these days
thinking the ecumenical movement is the first step in her plan with
John XXIII to (censored).

I am happy to report that our children are doing very well in
school and love music. Carolyn hopes to attend Oberlin’ s Conserva-
tory of Music next fall. Suzanne’s schedule is a master plan of
world conquest and Trey plays a grimy clarinet when he isn’t
shooting baskets.

Being some kind of a congenital ancestor worshiper and having a
family farm to contend with (we've had it for 130 years), my hobby
is planting white pine trees and building ponds to leave something
to remember me by and to reduce the acreage to rent out. We have
wild ducks and I saw seven coveys of quail one day last fall.
Politics is either a hobby or a disease and I'm in to stay as an
opponent of the present Democratic organization in Illinois (the
Republicans are as bad and a lot duller). Until the Chicago organ-
ization cracks or the state and national Democratic tickets show a
glimmer of courage the political future of the Democratic Party
in this state is as bright as an investment in a buggy w hip factory.
I’m hoping Horatio will be our next President" and that we can
get on with the business of supporting democracy, brushing aside
communism as no more than a stimulus for us to do better and a
symptom of where we have failed, going all out for civil rights, and

[ 909 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF Ig40

eventually getting around to issuing a commemorative stamp to
Thomas Paine. —T'll go quietly, Mr. Hoover.

I'm afraid twenty-five years is too short a time for me to arrive
at a verdict or “summing up” for the members of this Class who
are likely to turn especially to this page. You'll have to wait until
the Fiftieth Report for that kind of profundity but if you have the
temerity to hazard a definite opinion on the present or future state
of the world we'll go to the mat. I have just read our Sixth Report
again, and of those who expressed a definite opinion, 249 were
optimistic and only 56 were pessimistic about the future of our
country. Since one of the pessimists made President and most
of the optimists voted for him I have to be optimistic about the
future and express my confidence in this Class and its offspring,
trusting in an appropriate nudge from above when the chips are
down, and an all-out effort for birth contro} in the right places.

BERNARD THOMAS MULHOLLAND

    
 

SENET HIN

 
 

SRR eaters cee

   

HOME apprEss: 6 Belleau Rd., Salem, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Liberty Mutual Insurance Co., 175 Berkeley St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Lawrence High School, Lawrence, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937,

Marriep: Carol A. Harrington, Radcliffe °44, July, 1946. cHILoREN: Brian

John, May 20, 1947; Bernard Joseph, March 19, 1949; Kerry Ann, April
18, 1952,

occupation: Insurance; director — loss auditing.

AS Harvard (or was it 1) disappeared in the sctting sun, I decided
my borning was premature, rather than abortive. Ever alert for a
poor compromise, and perhaps influenced by repeated references to
the “no-account,” I turned to accountancy. By appropriately mark-

[910]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing my cuffs “debit” and “credit,” I easily attained graduate status.

Shortly thereafter, Liberty Mutual Insurance Company, in the
midst of the 1941 man-power shortage, hired me for my charm,
sincerity and obvious promise. As an auditor, I trekked (remember
the wartime travel) throughout the Midwest and South. After this
experience, I hardly flinched when the Army drafted me as the
last means of continuing the era of over-grade in age, and affluent
officers’ clubs.

At Fort Devens I disposed of the wars on both fronts by ener-
getically glutting all theatres with replacement troops. Duly de-
mobilized, and not unduly demoralized, I turned to New York,
marriage and re-employment.

Some eighteen years later, stoically resisting change, I have the
same wife, embrace the same religion and politics and work for the
same company. I have two sons and a daughter —all reasonably
safe from kidnappers motivated by a desire for profit. My wife
and children are fine people who help me to quell the rare attacks
of energetic ambition which beset me, thus preserving the tran-
quility of a hammerless home. Our generously mortgaged Cape, its
gray paint gently fluttering in the sea breezes, is completely elec-
trified, even if its tenants are not. I have most of my hair (but the
color ran), and far too much suet upon my spare, if not striking
frame. | oo
Facing a twenty-year delay before retirement, I frequently lose
myself in my work —the kindly leadership of a group of Cassius-
types who probe the extent of damages arising from crime, fire,
bumbling manufacture, and similar disasters that beset an under-
writing profit. The challenge is most stimulating, and safer than
heroin or heroics.

I look to the future with vibrant flaccidity, convinced that all
is not lost — but the gaming tables are still open. In these days of
compassionate countenancing and piteous posturing, brother and
bother are synonymous to too many. Let us hope that the op-
pressed will eventually find quarter from the great change-maker
in the sky.

May June, 1965, find me attuned and alive — preferring the lesser
epitaph “Forgotten, but not gone.”

[grr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1 94.0

JONAS NORMAN MULLER

 

OME apprEss: 346 Elm Pl., Leonia, N.J. 07605.

FFICE ADDRESS: New York Medical College, 60 E. 106th St., New York, N.Y,
10029.

REPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N.Y.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B, magna cum laude, 1940; Mo.
(Columbia Univ.), 1943; M.p.H. (Univ. of Michigan), 1948.

‘ARRIED: Charlotte Feldman, March 14, 1942. CHILDREN: Jeremy Lewis, Feb.
1, 1951; Sara Linda, June 14, 1953.

SCUPATION: Physician, educator; professor and chairman, Department of Pre-
ventive Medicine, New York Medical College.

FICES HELD: Rotating internship and assistant residency in internal medicine,
January, 1944, to June, 1945; clinical adjunct in internal medicine, Outpa-
tient Department, 1945-46, Beth Israel Hospital, New York City, industrial
medicine (and minor surgery) — private practice, New York City, 1945-
46; public health medical officer, Division of Preventive Medical Services,
State Department of Public Health, California, part of 1947-48; admin-
istrative assistant and assistant health officer in charge of Medical Services,
Department of Public Health, City of Oakland, Calif., 1948-50; rehabilita-
tion clinician, Kabat-Kaiser Institute for Neuro-muscular Rehabilitation,
Vallejo, Calif, 1950-52; staff director, Subcommittee on Medical Care,

1952-56, Subcommittee on Chronic Disease and Rehabilitation, 1952-56,
Committee on Administrative Practice, American Public Health Asso-
ciation; associate professor of public health (Medical Care), School of

_ Medicine, Yale University, 1952-56, member, Section Council, Medical
Care Section, 1958-61, member, Technical Development Board, 1963-66,
American Public Health Association, chairman, Committee on Medical
Care Teaching, Association of Teachers of Preventive Medicine, 1958-60;
member, board of directors, New York State Academy of Preventive
Medicine, 1962-65, East Harlem Council for Community Planning, since
1959; member, Special Committee on Aging, New York County Medical
Society, since 1963; member, Advisory Committee and Working Com-
mittee on Public Health Nursing Achievements and Goals, National
League for Nursing, 1956-57; member, Medical Advisory Committee,

Planned Parenthood Association of America, 1957-61; member, Com-

[912]

 

Lig a Sh AOR A MARIO PR LIRR LE MBER ENTE LON . . “— ° as
tp eed Se a Cap weah tatty OnE files MES a Tk setantaus EE
Wek tage ag oe ga a BRR te ‘

“hee acoA oO

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

munity Council of Greater New York, Manhattan Borough Health Ca-
reers Committee, 1956-57; member, Public Health Committee, Community
Council of Greater New York, 1958-60; member, Committee for Teen-
agers at East Harlem Health Center, 1961-62; member, Medical Advisory
Committee, New York City Chapter, Hemophilia Foundation, 1956-59;
member, Orthopedic Advisory Committee, since 1957, Epilepsy Advisory
Committee, since 1962, New York City Department of Health; member,
Advisory Committee for Prosthetics Centers for the Interdepartmental
Health Council, City of New York, 1961, member, Advisory Committee
for Amputee Centers, New York City Department of Health, since 1962;
Committee to Review and Recommend Standards for Nursing Homes,
New York Cicy Department of Hospitals, 1961-62; member, Leonia Citi-
zens Committee for Public Schools, since 1963, Leonia Citizens Committee
for a Public Swimming Pool, 1961-63.

MEMBER oF: American Board of Preventive Medicine (certified), American
College of Preventive Medicine (charter member and fellow); New
York State Academy of Preventive Medicine, New York Academy of
Sciences; American Public Health Association (fellow); American Med-
ical Association; Medical Society of the State of New York; Phi Beta
Kappa; Phi Kappa Phi; Delta Omega.

PUBLICATIONS: Member of editorial staff and then editor, The Intern, Journal
of the Association of Interns and Medical Students, 1941-45; many articles
including: “The Rehabilication Potential of Nursing Home Residents,”
with Jerome S. Tobis, M.D., and Howard R. Kelman, Ph.D., American
Journal of Public Health, February, 1963; “Medical Care, Medical Educa-
tion and Hotel Workers,” Archives of Environmental Health, December,
1963; “Preventive Rehabilitation — A Study of Nursing Home Residents,”
New York State Journal of Medicine, July, 1964; “Family Planning and
Preventive Medicine,” Manual of Contraceptive Practice, edited by Mary
Calderone, The Williams and Wilkins Company, Baltimore, 1964; “Post
Hospital Adaptation of a Chronically Ill and Disabled Rehabilitation
Population,” with Howard R. Kelman, Ph.D., and Milton Lowenthal,
M.D., Journal of Health and Human Behavior, summer-fall, 1964; thirty
book reviews in professional journals.

FROM Harvard in June of 1940, I proceeded to the Vassar campus
in Poughkeepsie to direct a first season of original plays in the
Hudson River Valley for the Valley Vagabonds, Inc. It was an
exciting summer, including a brief contact with the wonderful
Hallie Flanagan, professor of drama at Vassar and former director
of the Federal Theatre Project. I soon learned that professional
theater was not what I ought to be doing. Fortunately, the summer
also brought notice of admission to the September class of the
College of Physicians and Surgeons at Columbia and a firm begin-
ning to a career. I did not know then how important and useful
my Harvard and summer experiences in the theatre would become
in my life as a teacher of preventive medicine.

[913 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

if ever, voted for a Democratic candidate for President to a vote
for Johnson despite voting into office all of the local Republican
candidates.

I see a chance for life — for the peaceful development of world
societies. We seem to be approaching rational control of nuclear
energy, of population expansion, of distribution of the world’s re-
sources, of peaceful competition. The potential advances in biolog-
ical knowledge and their application through the health sciences
plus progress in social science should make it possible for many
of our Class to celebrate their Fiftieth —if we and “they” work
toward the survival of all our cultures,

ALEXANDER ECTOR ORR MUNSELL, JR.

 

HOME AppRESS: 1304 Berwick Rd., Ruxton, Md. 21204.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Koppers Co. Inc. Metal Products Division, P.O. Box 626,
Baluimore, Md. 21203.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1940.

MARRIED: Frances A. Budge, June 1, 1942. CHILDREN: John Stuart, March q, 1944;
Peter Budge, Feb. 14, 1945.

OccUPATION: Pricing specialist — piston ring and seal department sales,

member oF: L’Hirondelle Club, Ruxton, Md.,; Engineers Club of Baltimore,
Inc,

THE past twenty-five years began slowly, as I started my first
job and shortly thereafter learned to do nothing and wait in a
newly activated National Guard unit just prior to World War II.
The tempo picked up at Air Force flying schools, where I not
only learned to fly and received my wings, but also met and fell in
love with “Good Ol’ Mom.” Frances and I were married five

[918]

LL AI aa

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

weeks before I flew my B-24 overseas, and after a year in the
Mediterranean area, I returned to this country to receive a medical
discharge — no Purple Heart or anything glamorous — just migraine

headaches.
Returning to my previous job, my activities were connected with

the sales and engineering of piston rings for aircraft engines, and
they took me from coast to coast. About ten years ago, we acquired
a small company which specialized in the design and manufacture
of mechanical shaft seals, with the primary application in aircraft
jet engines. With my previous aircraft experience, I joined this
activity, and I soon found my nose close to the grindstone in
Baltimore with considerably less traveling. This has been fine with
me, because as I have grown older and stodgier, I find that I enjoy
home life!

During this time, Frances and I have produced two sons, one of
whom quit schoo] and is presently serving on the USS Independence,
while the other is looking hopefully toward college next year. Also,
we are animal lovers and we have overseen the birth and raising
of numerous cocker spaniels — registered, of course —but this
activity has not been financially rewarding to me, because “\fom”
cleverly charges the vet bills to me while she pockets the cash
from all puppy sales! We also have two cats who eat heartily and
don’t make any money either, and after fourteen years still show
no signs of slowing down.

Fifteen years ago we bought our present home, and since then
have had a continuous improvement program going on. So far,
we have cut down sixteen trees and still have twenty-five left for
a little shade; put on an addition to add a bedroom, sewing room
and a den; ripped out the kitchen to the bare outside walls and
redone it, followed later by further rearrangement, modernized two
bathrooms from crumbly sand plaster to modern tile; and eliminated
termites from the place permanently, we hope!

During the next twenty-five years we expect we will have grand-
children under foot— maybe sooner than we think, with Johnny
due out of the Navy in the spring, and very much in love, with
marriage as his objective —and I will continue to try to pay the
bills and keep the grass cut while “Good OP Mom” runs the place,
personally takes care of five large and beautiful gardens, and thinks
up new changes and improvements to make on the house!

”~

[919 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

+ JOHN SHANNON MURPHEY

 

BorN: March 3, 1918, Obion County, Tenn. parents: Harry Bailey Murphey,
Geneva Shannon.

PREPARED AT: South Fulton High School, South Fulton, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

DIED: Jan. 23, 1955, Fulton, Ky.

AFTER leaving college Murphey taught social science for two
years in Cayce, Kentucky, and then entered the Army, serving
three and a half years as an ordnance staff sergeant and two years
overseas. After his discharge in 1946, he planned to do graduate
work and continue in the teaching profession. He was an instructor
in English at the University of Tennessee Junior College at the time
of our Decennial Report.

VINCENT LAWRENCE MURPHY

 

HOME ApoRESS: 1345 Parkview Ave., Pasadena 3, Calif,

[ 920]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

orFIcE appreEss: Investors Diversified Services, 85 N. Lake Ave. Pasadena,

Calif,
PREPARED AT: Friends School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937, 1938-1941. DEGREE: A.B., 1940(41).
MARRIED: Irene Schorsch, March 10, 1945. cHiLp: Valerie Irene, Nov. 17, 1946.
occuPATION: Investment counselor; plastics consultant.
MEMBER OF: Society of the Plastics Industry, Society of Plastics Engineers
(professional member).

I SERVED in the Army, 1942-46, entering as private and leaving as
captain, and then settled in Southern California (Pasadena). Taking
extensive training in the Plastics Division of the Dow Chemical
Company, I advanced to the position of manager for this area. I
left in 1958 to become vice-president and general sales manager of a
vinyl calendering and compounding operation in Los Angeles. I
am now both a plastics consultant and a licensed securities broker.

I have one child, an eighteen-year-old daughter, who is now at-
tending the University of Southern California. I am a member of
the Trojan Club which is an S.C. athletic support group, and am
very interested in all the university’s affairs. Also, of course, I’m a
member of the Harvard Club of Southern California, an active
Republican, a Christian, a tennis player, a voracious reader and a
very interested observer of all forms of political organization and
operation. Also, I hope, a loyal son of Harvard.

WILLIAM FRANCIS MURRAY
F

:

     

HOME AppREss: 1 Summit Ave, Hull, Mass. (mail) P.O. Box 182, North Co-
hasset, Mass,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Oakdale School, Dedham, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

[921]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: 8.8, 1940; ED.M. (State Teachers Coll,

Boston), 1960.
marriep: Charlotte deBarcza, Feb. 2, 1952, cHitpren: William Francis, Jr,

Dec. 17, 1952; Charlotte Anne, Feb. 10, 1956; Charles Barcza, Feb. 22, 1964.
occupation: Elementary school principal.

THE years since graduation have seen the world, and even more

articularly my own world, become increasingly smaller. It is,
no doubt, ‘due to this that I now have enough paper and postcards
from Peter Pratt to paper a room.

The Army years, February, 1941, to February, 1947, were spent in
various assignments throughout the United States, a very short tour
in France and Germany ended by a jeep accident, and subsequent
hospitalization which led to mv retirement as a major in 1947.

Since much of the Army life had been spent in teaching, it was
natural for me to find myself back in a classroom before I had
finished my terminal leave. I soon found that teaching under the
glowing protection of the gold or silver bars of a lieutenant was
quite different from a presentation, delivered in mufti, to a group
of teen-agers from a metropolitan area. Since there was never a
day without some measure of return (in spite of the fact that I had
come to dread Sunday evening, that no-time between Friday after-
noon release from and Monday morning return to the school-
house), when a job offer in Europe came along I took it, planning
to work a foreign language into such shape that I should be able to
teach it.

Broken as they remained, my French and German became more
fluent and, after two years in Naples, I had added a language known
only to my maid and me. I also found the work with the displaced
persons of many nations to be so interesting that I extended my
stay for four years. Close to ten thousand people were assisted by
my office in realizing their great hope of getting to the United
States. One of them, my favorite case, a Hungarian refugee, got
her visa and came to the States. When it had become apparent that
she was going to be able to support herself, and me, I returned home
and we were married.

About the time of my return, the late President was beginning
his first Senatorial campaign, I had not known him at school but
had the good fortune to get to know him and work for him in the
campaign. I ran the statewide Tea Partics. I did not meet him
again after the cups were put away and the vores were in but he
did come to town later and cut down on P.T.A. attendance; his

[922]

Sinan ree UME

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

telecast at the time of the Cuban missile crisis coincided with an-
other P.T.A. meeting and as he spoke my confidence was strength-
ened; I announced his death to my children at school and mourned
his passing with my children at home. I have been no stranger to
death and wonder that his has continued to affect me more than
any other I have known.

I live by the sea and my daily walks along the shore make me
sharply aware of continuity and of the endless variety that makes
up this continuity. A school is not unlike the sea, nor the students
less different than each succeeding wave. Perhaps it is this con-
tinuity, mingled with variety, which makes the life of a teacher so
appealing to me.

WALTER PAUL MUTHER

 

HOME AppRESS: 133 Gibbs St., Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2206 John Hancock Bldg., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rivers Country Day School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: $.B., 1940; LL.B., 1943 (48).

MARRIED: Ruth Seidel, Nov. 8, 1941. cHitpreN: Paul Seidel, Dec. 4, 1944;
Geoffrey, Jan. 14, 1946; Catherine, March 5, 1947; Michael, Feb. 26, 1949.

HARVARD SON: Paul Seidel Muther, ’66.

HARVARD BROTHER: Lorenz Francis Muther, Jr., 30.

OCCUPATION: Counsel for state manufacturers’ association; legislative counsel,
agent and lobbyist.

OFFICES HELD: Usual tour of duty in political, professional, educational and
charitable undertakings, from president of local P.T.A,, to director, Urban

League of Greater Boston.

I HAVE found the settling in on this Class Life bit a very un-
settling thing to do. I am basically the rebcllious personality of
earlier years, the main difference being that the problems and the

[ 923]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

needs are more challenging and seemingly less close to the grasp.
As a result, my initial reaction is to resent a little any implication
that, by twenty-five vears out of college, we should get involved
in an accountability process as though we were the masters of our
destinies and, if not, that we should pretend we are, as a sign of our
maturity. This is a serious business now, of course, because we
have our own young people looking to us for guidance and, more
often than not, for the wrong reasons. I proceed therefore under
a sense of New England obligation that, because I am interested in
what others have been up to, they may also in return be interested.
I am perpetually surprised that this, in life, is not usually the case,
but the presumption is so basic to the idea of civilization, a univer-
sitv, or a society that I continue strong and optimistic in the faith.

From college to law school — where else? Harvard, of course.
But then my future wife took an interest in me, God bless her,
instead of my career; so I gave it up, with a nudge from the dean;
got married; lived off wedding presents and one hundred dollars a
month as a social worker; went to Mexico in a twenty-five-dollar
Model A Ford before the era of the trailer; and finally got into
the Army, wangling an advancement from a 4-F to a 1-B status.
For a good part of the next three and one-half years I felt this was
indeed my first real big mistake. Since then, I have been so busy I
have never really counted nor thought about past choices as per-
manently decisive. 1 would add, in a more general way, that the
ultimate horizons of the atom bomb too soon took the edge off the
victory over the subhuman in race relations which “our” war repre-
sented to me.

Back to law school, dropping off children at the Harvard Quon-
set-hut nursery on the way. (Since my oldest is now a junior, he
probably has the distinction of being at Harvard as a student longer
than any other son in our class.) To this day, I never understood
how I did it, though everyone else seemed to be in the same G.I.
ball game. Went to work in a law office specializing in labor rela-
tions for two years, until the recession of 1949, when I found my-
self spreading the risk in the legal end of the insurance business.
There I began to learn something about the political obligations of
a business vested with a semi-public interest, and it soon led to
joining the legislative staff of the state manufacturers’ association.

The challenge of this work to me has been important, fatiguing
and exciting, and that is why I am still very much at it. It is a
world of constant controversy, where institutional relationships are

[ 924]

WAC min ed 7 7G OR El oO eS

‘AGAR SN ea Ra a aaa

“ape ener

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

generally inadequate to the changing tasks, personalities are stronger
than abilities, and power is ever shifting —a veritable microcosm
of our world today. It is close to the mainstream of our political
life, if there is such a thing, and significant achievements are most
usually colored or buried in group myth. The political economy,
like everything else, is increasingly complex, and it tends to devour
men who work at directing it like a war machine. I think, how-
ever, more people of competence are thinking and working at
making it work, if only because of the tragic symbol of our mutual,
most distinguished, political classmate.

Next year I shall have three children in college and one more but
two years away. Under the circumstances, I suspect it will be the
Fiftieth Reunion before the pace has slackened and my capital
assets will be other than people. At present my treasure-trove lies
with the persons of competence and commitment, both living and
dead, with whom I have associated over the years and the person of
patience and devotion who has joined in making our family.

DENYS PETER MYERS, JR.

 

MAILING AppREss: Northern Virginia Fine Arts Association, 201 Prince St.,
Alexandria, Va. 22314.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1941. DEGREES: S.B, 1940(41); AM. (Columbia Univ.),
1948.

MarrigeD: Anne Buchonis, Aug. 24, 1940.
occupation: Museum director; director, Northern Virginia Fine Arts Asso-

ciation.
OFFICES HELD: Perpetual deacon, Fpiscopal Church, since 1954; member, board

of directors, Society of Architectural Historians, 1962-65, Maryland Asso-
ciation for Adult Education, 1962-64, Baltimore Heritage, Inc., 1962-64,

[925 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

MEMBER OF: Society of Architectural Historians; College Art Association of
America; American Association of Afuseums; National Trust for Historic
Preservation; Steamship Historical Society of America, Harvard Club of
Maryland; American Church Union; Episcopal Society for Cultural and
Racial Unity; Six Napoleons of Baltimore (affiliated with Baker Street
Irregulars).

pustications: Occasional articles in American architectural history field, re-
views of art books for Baltimore Sun papers.

SINCE the Tenth Anniversary Report came out, my career has
continued to be a checkered one, at least geographically. After
directing Philbrook Art Center, Tulsa, from 1955 through 1958,
and the Des Moines Art Center during 1958-59, I joined the Balti-
more Museum of Art as assistant director and remained in that
post until 1964 when I resigned to do research and to write a biog-
raphy of Isaiah Rogers, 1800-69, a leading American architect of
the Greek revival period. After completing most of my basic
research on the project, I accepted the directorship of the Northern
Virginia Fine Arts Association, headquartered in Alexandria, in
September, 1964. While in Baltimore I taught American art and
architecture at the Johns Hopkins University.

In spite of the depression, World War II, racial strife, and the
rather modest monetary rewards attainable in museum work, I’m
still an optimist. A devoted wife, good friends, and a moderately
serviceable profession (which is also my chief hobby) keep me in
sanguine spirits. For change and relaxation, I take busman’s holidays
to see architecture and museums, principally in this country. For
a complete change of pace, I dabble in steamboat lore and arcane
matters associated with the career of Mr. Sherlock Holmes, formerly
of Baker Street. Despite occasional worries, | still have good health,
much of my hair, and most of my teeth.

As for social beliefs, I see our society in terms of problems to
be solved, although I have no solutions to offer. To attain the good
society we must, I think, work for voluntary population control
and more equitable distribution of vital necessities on a world-wide
basis, plan more intelligently to cope with the growing problems of
urbanism and do whatever we can to achieve full freedom of op-
portunity for all our citizens. Grudgingly granted concessions will
not ease racial tensions.

In politics, I’ve never been sure whether I am a conservative
liberal or a liberal conservative. The difficulty is that people aren’t
divided clearly and simply into good guys and bad guys with the
good guys (us, naturally) upholding virtue and the bad guys

[926 }

peo habeblah eka, Withee Heiney oe boag Ee a Baal a : .

SEE ROM ERE TENY ADT IE OYE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(them, of course) trying to destroy the country. I register as a
Democrat and vote as I see given issues and candidates, which means
I vote for more Democrats than Republicans and doesn’t mean I

~ don’t admire and respect many Republicans. It would not make
me happy to see an Arizona senator in the White House in 1965,
however.

My religious views have not changed fundamentally but they
have broadened. I am a practicing Episcopalian, was ordained a
deacon in 1954, and assist as a minister in church work whenever
possible. I’ve always leaned strongly toward the Anglo-Catholic
end of the spectrum in churchmanship, but I find I cannot be as
doctrinaire about such matters as I once was. Ecumenicism has had
its effect on me. At last the polemical spirit of the unhappy past is
being replaced by a new charity, thanks in no small degree to men
like Popes John and Paul and Cardinals Bea and Cushing, and all
who are concerned for the future of the Judeo-Christian tradition
must be grateful for this.

While in a philosophizing mood, it seems appropriate to say a
word about Harvard. I don’t get a lump in my throat and my eyes
don’t mist over at the thought of Harvard, but it is a remarkable
place. For me perhaps Harvard’s most remarkable quality is not so
much what is taught as how it is taught. Very little is served up
in canned capsules. One is encouraged to question and, hence, to
think. May this ever continue to be the case.

JOHN WOODS MYERS, JR.

 

HOME appréss: 217 High Rd., Newbury, Mass.
OFFICE AppREss: McMillan Laboratory, Ipswich, Mass,
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass,

[ 927 ]

py
= SA ~~ ssaamge teapa ts ne EERE Ae DERG EI TTI T

 

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

YEARS EN COLLEGE: 1936-1940.

mareted: Elinor Eberhard, Jan. 5, 1947. cutto: Kathryn, Feb. 7, 1951.
HARVARD BROTHER: Frederick Bagley Myers, °42 (deccased).
occuPATiON: Sales engineer — aircraft radomes, microwave absorbers,
MEMBER OF: Quiet Birdmen (pilots’ organization).

GRADUATED from Boeing School of Aeronautics in the fall of
1940. Went on active duty as ensign, USNR and served on a
variety of ship and shore stations. Last duty as executive officer,
USS Webster, which finally wound up in Japan, and released to
inactive status as lieutenant commander. Have been in aviation ever
since the war, primarily as a pilot flight instructor, corporation
pilot, aircraft sales, etc.

Present position with McMillan Laboratory is chiefly involved
with marketing of airborne weather radomes and related micro-
wave absorber applications to airlines, general aviation and govern-
ment agencies.

We have lived in the Newbury area for the last fourteen years,
which affords convenient outlets for hobbies such as hunting, fish-
ing and boating.

DAVID JOHN MYERSON

 

HOME AppreEss: 11 Moon Hill Rd., Lexington, Mass. “*

OFFICE appress: 18 Moore St., Belmont, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; M.p. (Tufts Coll.), 1943.

maraieo: Edith Small, Dec. 21, 1941. CHILDREN: Joanne, Sept. 2, 19445 Alice,
Jan. 28, 1948; Rachel, Jan. 13, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Graves Myerson, °35, M.0., 39.

OCCUPATION: Psychiatry.

orrices HELD: Director, Drug Addiction Unit, Boston State Hospital, visiting

[ 928 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

physician, Psychiatry Unit, Boston City Hospital; chief, Alcoholic Clinic,
Peter Bent Brigham Hospital; clinical associate in psychiatry, Harvard
Medical School.

MEMBER OF: American Psychoanalytic Association, American Psychiatric As-
sociation, Boston Psychoanalytic Society and Institute.

PUBLICATIONS: “The ‘Skid Row’ Problem: Further Observations on a Group
of Alcoholic Patients, with Emphasis on Interpersonal and the Thera-
peutic Approach,” New England Journal of Medicine, June, 1956, “A
Report of a Rehabilitation Program for Alcoholic Women Prisoners,”
Quarterly Journal of Studies on Alcobol, November, 1961.

I AM pleased to report to my classmates that these past twenty-five
years have been kind to me. I have married and fathered three
lively, intelligent and attractive daughters, the eldest of whom is
now a student at the University of Chicago.

My career in medicine has followed what amounts to a family
tradition; teaching, research and practice of psychiatry. I feel
fortunate that I am able to spend most of my days attempting to
improve psychiatric care for the extremely poor and, at the same
time, earn a good enough income to support my rather extravagant
family in a comfortable fashion.

Like many of my classmates, I spent enough time in the Army to
understand Sherman’s Summation of War. I served as a medical
officer in an Infantry Division that campaigned up and down the
Italian boot. I suffered no hurts except moments of ennui and fear.

I have no formal religious affiliations or convictions. I usually
vote Democratic in the national elections, and I try to vote for the
liberal candidates that either party in Massachusetts occasionally
offers.

As a final statement in this rather placid demographic analvsis
of a single Harvard graduate, I can say that I have no outstanding
debts that I cannot pay off in the next few years, but with one
important exception. The exception refers to the debt I owe to
the University. I know I cannot repay w hat Harvard has given
me. I do hope, however, that this simple statement and my oc-
casional financial contributions express the depth of my gratitude.

[ 929 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

GEORGE NADEAU

 

HOME ADpRESS: 401 St. Francis Drive, Green Bay, Wis.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 128 FE, Walnut St., Green Bay, Wis.

PREPARED AT: St. Norbert High School, DePere, Wis.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.D. (Northwestern Univ.),
1944.

marrieD: Marynelle Daoust, Sept. 9, 1943. CHILDREN: Cecile Louise, May 15,
1945; Emile George, 3d, Jan. 21, 1948; Denise Ann, Dec. 21, 1949; Camille
Beth, March 6, 1952.

OCCUPATION: Physician and surgeon,

OFFICES HELD: Director, Oneida Golf & Riding Club, 1951-53, 1959-62; chair-
man, Section on Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology, State Medical So-
ciety of Wisconsin, 1952; director, 1952-61, secretary to the board, 1959-
61, Green Bay YMCA; area consultant to Department for Rehabilitation of
the Blind in Wisconsin, since 1953; delegate, State Medical Society of
Wisconsin from Section on Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology, 1954-59;
president, Brown County Medical Society, 1958; chairman, Division of
Visual and Hearing Defects, State Medical Society of Wisconsin, 1958-59;
president, Wisconsin-Upper Michigan Oto-Ophthalmological Society,
1959; councilor, National Medical Foundation for Eye Care, 1959; chair-
man, Federal Legislative Committee, State Medical Society of Wisconsin,
1959-60, delegate, State Medical Society of Wisconsin from the Brown
County Medical Society, 1959-61, president, Green Bay Rotary Club, 1959-
60, Green Bay Rotary Foundation, since 1960; director, Green Bay Area
Chamber of Commerce, 1959-62; member, Health Economics of American
Life Committee of the State Medical Society of Wisconsin, since 1960;
chairman, National Affairs Committee, Green Bay Area Chamber of Com-
merce, since 1960, councilor (director), State Medical Society of Wis-
consin, since 1961; chairman, Building Committee, Oneida Golf and Rid-
ing Club, since 1962; director, Green Bay Newman Foundation.

MeMbeR oF: American Board of Ophthalmology (diplomate); American Col-
lege of Surgeons (fellow); Chicago Ophthalmological Society; American
Academy of Ophthalmology and Otolaryngology (fellow); American
Medical Association and its components; Brown County Medical Socicty;

[ 930 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

State Medical Society of Wisconsin; Wisconsin-Upper Michigan Oto-
Ophthalmological Society; National Medical Foundation for Eye Care;
National Society for the Prevention of Blindness; Rotary International,
Citizens Committee, St. Norbert College, DePere, Wis.; Brown County
Historical Society; Elks Club.

AS the children grow up, our family life has become hectically
routine. We have dinner at our house from five to nine each
evening — swim team, football practice, debating, etc. During the
winter, Competitive swimming activities involve twenty thousand
miles of travel. Squeeze in skiing at odd hours.

With spring, track takes over in the male division; competitive
golf in the female. Summer brings extensive canoe trips in Canada
and elsewhere for the camp age group. Father enjoys intervals of
cruising in North Channel and Georgian Bay, mostly to exercise
his galley arts.

When leaves fall, what else is there? “Titletown, USA,” some-
times known as Green Bay, is conducive to an interest in the national
sport (football, of course!). We will have the title again, never
fear. .

Yes, there is a vocation too. I still enjoy the practice of ophthal-
mology and am most fortunate in continuing to be associated with
my father.

GEORGE WASHINGTON NAUMBURG, JR. |

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1136 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y. 10028.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 15 E. gist St., New York, N.Y. 10028.

PREPARED AT; Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; M.D. (Yale Univ.), 1945; Cert.
in Psychoanalysis (Columbia Univ.), 1955.

[930]

Se

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

marrieD: Delia Heming, Sept. 16, 1944 (divorced i959); Michelle Reiner,
March 18, 1961, cHipren: Peter Henry, Dec. 31, 1945; Eric George,
Sept. 10, 1947; Janet Lucile, April 22, 1950; Elizabeth Harrict, April 24,
1952.

occuPaTION: Psychoanalyst and psychiatrist, preceptor, Department of Psy-
chiatry, Mt. Sinai Hospital, New York.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Playschools Association, Inc. Naumburg Orchestral
Concerts, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; American Psychoanalytic Associa-
tion; American Psychiatric Association (fellow); American Board of
Psychiatry and Neurology, Inc. (diplomate).

puBLications: “The Pleasure Process,” Journal of Nervous and Mental Dis-
orders, 1956,

AFTER another year in Lowell House taking science courses, I
moved to the Yale School of Medicine where President Seymour
greeted me with: “I am glad you have shown better judgment in
your more mature years.” My response was to get pneumonia twice
and spend the rest of that winter on a cow ranch in Arizona.

The three spring months I observed and helped a busy surgeon
at the local hospital and at Sing Sing Prison and its hospital. At the
prison I attended my first autopsy, for by law an autopsy is required
after an execution. If any of you are in favor of capital punish-
ment, sign up to be one of the twenty-four required witnesses to
an execution. I could never steel myself to watch the murder, but
one night I stood with the witnesses and listened to them discuss the
“show” and the midnight feast at the warden’s house to follow.

Finally, in July, 1942, I settled down to four busy, enjoyable years
in three at Yale. Then came internship at Boston City Hospital
and a non-Ivory Tower view of Boston. After a two-year spell in
the Navy assigned first to the VA Hospital at Bath, New York, and
then a VA mental hospital at Northport, Long Island, there were
two sons, a house in Scarsdale and psychiatric residency at the Mt.
Sinai Hospital. Following that: psychoanalytic training at Colum-
bia, a part-time activity that goes on for years (five for me), and
takes up to thirty hours a week. Then, too, there was and is the
satisfying and challenging independence of private practice. My
work at Mt. Sinai with patients, other doctors, and_ especially
teaching is always rewarding. Somewhere amid that came two
daughters.

Then there have been the detours. I took a part-time job as as-
sistant professor of psychiatry at the State University College of
Medicine in Brooklyn to teach resident psychiatrists in the state

[ 932 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

mental hospital system. The frustrations of an administrative hier-
archy are quite a contrast to private practice. Two years of that
and the hours behind the wheel between Scarsdale, Brooklyn, and
Long Island were sufficient.

Then came divorce and the move back to the place of my birth,
Manhattan. Here, with only one detour to start a still going (but
without me) private psychiatric hospital for adolescents, I have a
life that suits me fine. My office and the hospital are within walking
distance; I like New York; and, above all, my wife, who gave up
Broadway and operatic singing, does so much to make our life full
and happy. We are embarking on a country place with a long-
term project of raising grapes to make wine. By the time of our
Fiftieth I should be able to report success or failure.

My other future is four teen-agers who by turn delight, pain and
amaze me.

PHIL CALDWELL NEAL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4825 S. Woodlawn Ave., Chicago, Ill. 60615.
OFFICE apprEss: Law School, University of Chicago, 1111 E. 6oth St. Chicago,

Ill. 60637.
PREPARED AT: Oak Park and River Forest Township High School, Oak Park,

Ill.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, suvrmia cum larde, 1940; LL.B.
magna cum laude, 1943.
- MARRIED: Mary F, Cassidy, June 20, 1944. cHupREN: Richard C. April to,
1947; Stephen C., March 26, 1949; Timothy B., May 15, 1953; Andrew G,,

Dec. 17, 1959,
occupaTION: Dean of the Law School and professor of law, University of

Chicago.

OFFICES HELD: Director, American Bar Foundation, since 1964; executive seere-

[ 933 ]

$e

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

tary, Coordinating Committee for Multiple Litigation of the U.S. District
Courts, since 1962; regional chairman, National Enforcement Commis-
sion, 1952-54; director, Sequoia Process Corporation, 1950-55, Attalla
Pipe & Foundry Company, 1959-62; member, Chicago Crime Commission.
MEMBER OF: California and Illinois bars; American and Chicago Bar Asso-
ciations, Legal Club; Law Club; Mid-Day Club; Quadrangle Club.

I HAVE been a lawyer, a law teacher and, for the past two years,
the dean of a law school. I finished law school at Harvard during
the war, as the result of a brief illness which the military medical
examiners found disqualifying, and then went to Washington for a
couple of years. In 1945 the State Department gave me a chance
to be exposed to San Francisco during the United Nations’ founding.
My wife and I settled there. We spent the next sixteen years in
California, most of them at Stanford, where I became a member of
the law school faculty in 1948. Four years ago an invitation to
join the faculty at the University of Chicago found us, somewhat
to our surprise, in a mood for change and overcame our attachment
for Stanford and the pleasures of life in the Bay Area. (We can’t
forget a Sunday stroll in the foothills during a visit from our
Classmate Ralph Gustin shortly before the decision to move, when
Ralph innocently remarked, “Think how lucky you are — why,
you might be living i in some place like Chicago.”)

In Chicago we have found, along with dirt and hard winters, the
stimulus of urban life and of another great university, and also the
excitement of living where people are successfully dealing with
the problems of urban decay and renewal, Its unexpected benefits
have included discovery of how pleasant Chicago summers often
are, how friendly and interesting a community we have moved to,
and (for my wife, who is still a New Englander at heart) what a
good substitute for the Cape the northern beaches of Michigan
can be.

I've been blessed with an amazingly adaptable and gregarious
wife, who has gallantly coped with changes of locale, compulsory
friendships, an oversized old house, and four sons —and who still
looks forward to having some sort of career of her own choosing,
leisure, and travel. Our children’s ages span an uncomfortable

number of years —the eldest is seventeen and the youngest five —
but the intervals may enable us to meet the twenty-five or thirty

man-years of higher education that probably face us. I enjoy re-
flecting that others, perhaps some of my classmates, will be paying
for the weddings, And we are glad that when our eldest gocs to

[934]

NMOL EN Reece tg +

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

college next fall, hopefully to Harvard, there will be another whose
departure is a dozen years away.

Besides our children, our greatest satisfactions have probably
come from the number of friendships which life in today’s mobile
academic world has made it possible for us to make and maintain.
And some of our best friends even visit us in Chicago, including

Gustin.

EDWARD DEGNAN NESTOR

Ba ital eet A peel ac Cet catahmabbsianabis EL

 

HOME appreEss: R.D. 1, Norristown, Pa.

OFFICE apprEss: Merck, Sharp & Dohme, Division of Merck & Co. West
Point, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; M.B.Ax 1947.

MARRIED: Helen M. Cassiani, Nov. 3, 1945. CHILDREN: Mark Louis, Feb. 5,
1948; Peter Degnan, Feb. 26, 1951; Sarah Ellen, Oct. 1, 1955.

occupation: Opérations manager, advertising department, Merck, Sharp &
Dohme, manufacturers and marketers of pharmaceuticals and biologicals
developed by its research division.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and president, Payroll Management Society of
Greater Philadelphia, 1960, 1961; vice-president, board of governors, Penn
Square Swimming Club, 1962, 1963; lieutenant colonel, Artillery, Army
Reserve — instructor in Associate Command & General Staff College,
Philadelphia; vice-chairman — camping, General Nash District, BSA.

IN twenty-five years, it now appears that I have had three careers,
mostly simultaneously; soldier, builder and business manager.

For the first career I was on active duty as an artillery officer
from July, 1940, to January, 1946, and from June, 1951, to Sep-
tember, 1952. Since then I have served in the Army Reserve with
the present rank of licutenant coloncl; IT am now also an instructor

[935]

SE

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

in the Associate Command and General Staff College in Philadelphia.

For the second occupation, having married an Army nurse with
a penchant for designing, I have built three houses from which we
were repeatedly moved by a Boston textile firm. With a hiatus of
living in a house built by someone else I have for the past six years
been restoring a two- hundred- year-old stone house on German-
town Pike at the twentieth mile stone (still there) west of Phila-
delphia. We've also converted our stone barn into a home (this
is my way of paving the children’s way through college).

For my third line of work, [ have been actively engaged in auto-
mating functions formerly performed by people to the efficiency
of electronic data processing machines. Yet I am not fearful of the
result — for man has the capacity of providing rewarding work for
all. As operations manager, advertising department, for Merck,
Sharp & Dohme, I am in the thick of a business dedicated to the
well-being of mankind through better and safer drugs.

Along the way, after returning for an M.B.A. at the Business
School in 1947, my wife and I have been blessed with three fine
children. Our oldest is entering college next September, perhaps
Harvard. His brother is majoring in football in junior high and
his sister is working towards ten in grammar school,

The four years at Harvard, I’m convinced, were the trigger for
it all—they were a gift from my mother and father and are with-
out price.

My greatest regret is not to have been able to vote again for our
Classmate, John Fitzgerald Kennedy, last November.

WALTER EUGENE NEWBERT

  

HOME ADDRESS: 165 Conant Rd, Weston, Mass,

[ 936 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADpRESS: Lucas & Newbert Corp., 178 Crescent Rd., Needham Heights,
Mass.

PREPARED AT: Hebron Academy, Hebron, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarRIED: Dorothy B. Burt, Feb. 26, 1938. culLpReN: Richard B., Dec. 14, 1942;
Nancy Carolyn, April 6, 1946.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Lincoln Newbert, 743.

OCCUPATION: President, Lucas & Newbert Corporation (manufacturers’ agent),
Lancor Distributors and Weston Company (manufacturers).

OFFICES HELD: President, New England Houseware-Hardware Representatives
Association, 1964.

MEMBER OF: Housewares Club of New England, New England Hardware As-
sociates; New England Houseware-Hardware Representatives Association,
Springfield Point Association; Winter Harbor Yacht Club; Weston Golf
Club.

BECAUSE Pve been so busy living it I have not often stopped to
reflect on my life since 1940, nor to try to try to make a summary
of it. Twenty-five years! “Alas! how swift the moments fly!
How flash the years along!” * I find it difficult to compress in a
short autobiographical sketch the fullness of these years and to make
an objective assessment of the changes time has made in me and my
outlook on life.

Healthwise, I have run the course — ulcers, kidney stones and a
heart attack, to say nothing of a broken leg. Luckily, these have
not curtailed my hobbies of golf, bowling and sailing, even though
tennis, mountain climbing and water skiing are now proscribed.

_ A pragmatist today in contrast to the Quixotic optimist of twenty-
five years ago I am surprised to find, when reflecting on it, that I
have retained as much of the idealism of my college years as I have.
Whereas I have failed to achieve all that I set out to do, and it was
a Herculean schedule of things I had in mind, I have found a large
measure of satisfaction in the accomplishment of the possible rather
than in the pursuit of the utopian.

My occupations of the past quarter-century have been many and
varied, although most changes took place between 1940 and 1950.
I have been clerk, inspector, foreman, superintendent, sales man-
ager and vice-president for others before setting up my own busi-
ness as a manufacturers’ agent. The latter move was, I suppose,
inevitable and although not necessarily more remunerative, it has
afforded me that independence and sense of personal accomplish-
ment which my basic nature requires. Being constitutionally un-
suited to stand still very long I have also diversified my activities
into wholesale distribution and a small manufacturing operation.

[ 937 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Not a joiner by nature, and being wrapped up in my business
activities twenty-four hours a day, according to my wife, I have
participated less in politics, community activities, societies and clubs
than I would like to have. Those groups to which I do belong are
those mainly concerned with my business or related to our family
social life.

Politically I have always been an independent, voting for the
man rather than following a party line, although I must admit to a
largely Republican bias in Massachusetts politics. If there is one
thing that the recent national elections have taught me it is that I
must choose, become a registered party member, have some small
voice in the selection of party candidates, help to preserve the two-
party system, or I may have no choice at all.

Paraphrasing a song popular in our college days, “it might have
been a headache, but it’s never been a bore” would perhaps most
aptly describe the twenty-seven happy years of my marriage which
started when I was but a sophomore in college. Our children are
grown now and have left the nest. Dick, our eldest, graduated from
Tufts in 1964 and is presently serving with the Navy as air transport
officer aboard the carrier USS Independence. Nancy, three years
younger, the apple of her father’s eye, is away at college. Except
for the occasional weekend, when the house swarms with young
adults, life has taken on a new tempo from that of the past years.
Although “the tumult and the shouting” have died, Dottie and I find
ourselves busier than ever, the result, I am sure, of our release from
immediate parental duties. -

Of wandering there has been little. From Newton we have mi-
grated by way of Cambridge, Hartford, Connecticut, and Framing-
ham only a few miles to Weston. Summers have been spent at
Lake Winnipesaukee at Wolfeboro, New Hampshire. Perhaps, be-
fore the grandchildren arrive and we take up baby-sitting chores
we will be able to get in some of that long-deferred travel.

‘This small summary can scarcely tell of all the people, places and
things of my life these past twenty-five years, it hardly serves as an
adequate outline, but then my Odyssey has been a quiet one.

* John Quincy Adams, The Hour Glass.

L938]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARLAN WILLARD NEWELL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2862 Chadbourne Rd., Cleveland, Ohio 44120.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Thompson Ramo Wooldridge, Inc., 8001 E. Pleasant Valley Rd.,
Cleveland 31, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-40. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1940.

marriED: Gisela Ria Salzmann, Sept. 24, 1949. CHILDREN: Willard F., Oct. 24,
1950; Ria-Lynne, May 6, 1953; Harlan G., Oct. 24, 1954.

occupaTION: Buyer, Automotive Replacement Parts Sales Division, Thompson

' Ramo Wooldridge, Inc.; purchase seven million dollars’ worth of parts
annually.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman and junior warden, Christ Episcopal Church, Shaker
Heights, Ohio, 1960-65; chairman, Christ Church Lay Readers, 1957-65;
Diocesan Convention Dinner Committee, 1963, Laymen’s Conference
Committee for Diocese of Ohio, 1964-65; Scoutmaster, Junior Achieve-
ment adviser, Shaker Dads Club Committee.

“How bright the dreams of yesterday
How quickly pass the fleeting years
How oft the course has gone astray
Yet find we laughter midst the tears.”

LIFE has taken many twists and turns and developed rather differ-
ently than I anticipated when we said “good-by” in Cambridge
twenty-five years ago. At that time, the path seemed straight and
promising with a degree in hand and a good job as a petroleum
geologist already waiting from the previous summer’s work. Dallas
was a pleasant city and Texas was the land of opportunity.

Hoping to complete six months of military training and return
to geology, I enlisted in the Army in the fall of 1940. History
changed this plan and six months became six and a half years lead-
ing through OCS, c.o. of an Instrument and Survey School, and

[939 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

finally two years and five campaigns as operations officer with First

Army Heavy Artillery in Europe and nine months as a military .
government officer. These were years of education surpassing even

Harvard with experiences which ran the gamut from the depravities

of Dachau to the magnificence of Linderhof.

The war years did more to alter my life and outlook than any
other experience. They introduced me to peoples, ways of life,
philosophies and problems I had never dreamed of. They demon-
strated vividly how thin is the veneer of civilization which covers
our basic nature yet how great can be some human souls. They
taught me that a life based primarily on the acquisition of material
goods is futile and they caused me to question more deeply the true
meaning and purpose of life. I have not yet found the answer but
the search continues.

Returning home in mid-1946, sociologically ill-adjusted to the ease
and complacency of civilian life and technically antiquated in my
profession, I welcomed a position in crude oil purchasing with the
opportunity to work evenings for a S.B. and Master’s degree in
Business Administration. Restlessness persisted and in the fall of
1949 I resigned my job, returned to Europe and married a lovely
girl ] had met in Germany at the end of the war.

The love and patience of my wife have brought stability and peace
as well as three healthy children who give us great joy. There were
years of adjustment, job changing, discouragement and fun. We
share a mutual interest in our church where Ria is a teacher and an
officer in several women’s guilds. Rick, our eldest, is a server. Ria- :
Lynne is a choir girl and Dad is a vestryman and lay reader. i

For the past eleven years the position of buyer for the Automo-
tive Replacement Parts Division of Thompson Ramo Wooldridge
has provided an adequate if unimpressive income. Part of the
compensation of this job is free evenings and weekends with the
family which can be devoted to golf, swimming, skiing, the art
museum, short excursions, civic activities or the sheer pleasure of
reading or listening to good music. It is a happy time of life.

Philosophically, I find our life and times challenging and often
disturbing. I believe in human and social progress yet fear the loss
of personal liberty and individual responsibility with the ever-in-
creasing scope of government. I see more men seeking security in
a controlled society and economy and relinquishing their rights and
responsibility to search for truth and think for themselves. I see
men sacrificing principle for expediency and yet I also see progress

[ 940 ]

A TREN ERROR af Weaning:

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the great social and racial issues of our day. I am glad to be
alive in these times. There is much work to be done on all fronts
and in every field. The challenge is great, the opportunities un-
limited. It is my fervent hope and prayer that I may make some
small contribution to life and my fellow man.

To each classmate goes the sincere wish for a life of health,
happiness and success in all you undertake.

GEORGE REIZO NISHIKAWA

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 336 E. 116th St., New York, N.Y. (Lost.)

THEODORE WOODS NOON, JR.

  

HOME ApprREsS: 11 Park Pl, Short Hills, N.J.

OFFICE apprEss: Bond Dept., Prudential Insurance Co., Newark, N.J.
PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; M.B.A,, I951.

[ 941 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

marrieD: Marjorie Spence Hill, Nov. 27, 1942, cHiLpREN: Nicholas Woods,
Nov. 9, 1943; Jonathan Douglas, Dec. 2, 1946, Laura Lee, May 26, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Henry Noon, *43.

occuPATION: Investment management, general investment manager, primarily
petroleum stocks and private placement debt issues,

OFFICES HELD: Scoutmaster, Buckeye, N.Mex., 1940-41; captain, Company G,
351st Infantry, 88th Division, Italy, 1944; engineer and geologist, Texaco,
Texas and New Mexico, 1940-51; trustee, Holliston (Mass.) Library, 1954-
58; member, Zoning Commission, Holliston, 1955; vice-president, Gas In-
dustries Fund, Boston, 1952-60; vice-president, Colonial Fund, Boston,
1956-60; deacon, First Congregational Church, Holliston, 1958—Go; partner,
Colonial Management Associates, Boston, 1956-60; general investment
manager, Prudential Insurance Company, Newark, N.J., since 1960; mem-
ber, Christian Education Committee, Community Congregational Church
of Short Hills, since 1964.

MEMBER OF: Legion of Valor; American Association of Petroleum Geologists;
American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum Engineers;
New York Society of Security Analysts; Racquets Club of Short Hills,

PUBLICATIONS: Patent pending on pipe (smoking); articles on oil and finance
in the Financial Analyst Journal, contributed to The Financing of Oil and
Gas Exploration and Production in Canada for the Royal Commission,

AFTER graduation I joined Texaco as a roustabout petroleum
engineer working in a six-man gang at Buckeye, New Mexico, |]
absorbed the flavor of the petroleum industry from the end of a
forty-eight-inch wrench, aided by steak at thirty-five cents a pound
and pecan pies at twenty-five cents each. I even learned the schot-
tische to the tune of “Little Brown Jug.” The war interrupted my
oil efforts and took me overseas in 1944 where C-rations replaced
steaks all too often.

Marjorie (Bennington ’43) shared the war with me, as we were
married in 1942, We lived in Muskogee, Oklahoma, and Columbus,
Georgia, before I embarked with the Division for North Africa.
A telegram announcing the arrival of our first son, Nicholas, reached
me at the POE just before sailing, and it took some time to open

_ because my friends had put about a thousand staples through the
envelope, Nick is now twenty-one (Deerfield ’61, Johns Hopkins
65) and is majoring in physics. He has been co-captain of the soccer
team this fall. Jack, our younger son (Andover 64, Dartmouth 68),
particularly enjoys our fishing expeditions. Laura (Kent Place, ’67,
college unknown), will be sixteen by Reunion time. Marjorie has
her own studio for sculpture and is on the board of the Milburn-
Short Hills Art Center.

My job in Italy was to take hills without stopping to study

[ 942 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

geology and, in the process, to lose as few men as possible. It was
a full-time job for all of us over there. In July, General Mark Clark
presented me with the Distinguished Service Cross and a battlefield
promotion to captain (Lodge ’24 was present). I spent six months
in combat as an Infantry rifle company commander and was wounded
five different times, finally taking a bullet through the neck (of
all places) and losing a leg in late September on Mount Capello.

After the war, the life of a Texaco geologist was one of maps
and well logs in quiet offices, cores and cuttings on a string of
successful wildcat wells (deep in Texas), and always one of in-
teresting give-and-take with the colorful people who bring crude
oil out of the ground. I took a leave of absence to attend the Har-
vard Business School, spending the summer between years chasing
drilling rigs in Scurry County, Texas. The B-School was quite a
struggle with our three children, and I cannot exactly recommend
the combination.

We had expected to return to Texaco in 1951 but decided to join
a Boston firm. The mutual fund work in Boston was a change of
pace with a series of meetings and trips aimed at acquiring a de-
tailed knowledge of the progress and problems of many oil com-
panies’ managements, both under good and poor industry conditions
—all in the context of the stock market. Office politics and policy
disagreements indicated a move to Prudential Insurance Company
in 1960.

With Prudential during the past four years I have assisted in
making loans to many companies on oil and gas production, re-
fineries, natural gasoline plants, oil and gas pipelines, drilling muds,
offshore drilling platforms, and tetraethyl lead, as well as recom-
mending purchase of shares of common stocks of companies in the
oil and other industries. Inspecting properties has taken me out
of the office frequently with trips as far as northern Alberta and
southern Mexico.

One idea which I should like to share with my Class would give
all of us in America an objective worthy of our heritage. The
world has shrunk since 1940, and we Americans need to understand
considerably more about it. More than fifty new nations have been
formed since 1940, and each one needs friends. As a supplement
to foreign aid, I should like to see a large private group, in each
of our fifty states, focus on one country abroad (Chile and California
have recently formed such an alliance). The objectives are to try
to understand its people, to provide an audience for its struggles,

[ 943 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

and to tell its people about ourselves. Such an arrangement would

increase our sense of involvement and perhaps put a better handle
on the world for our children and ourselves.

RAYMOND HENRY NORWEB, JR.

RN eI Ngo Meme een CEE, ogy
re Ter ere eee my

4
2

    

ak

HOME ADDRESS: 18930 S. Woodland Rd., Cleveland, Ohio 44122.

orFice appress: Holden Arboretum, Union Commerce Bldg., Cleveland, Ohio
44114.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Elizabeth Gardner, Sept. 11, 1944. CHILDREN: Raymond Henry, 3d,
Feb. 14, 1947; Emery May, July 18, 1949; Constance Elizabeth, April 30,
1952,

HARVARD BROTHER: Albert Holden Norweb, ’44.

OCCUPATION: Executive director, Holden Arboretum.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Musical Arts Association (Cleveland Symphony Orches-
tra), since 1958; director and currently vice-president, Cleveland Play-
house, since 1961; member and past chairman, Greater Cleveland Salvation
Army Board, since 1958; Councilman, 1949-56, Mayor, 1956-58, Bratenahl

Village; director, American Association of Botanical Gardens and Ar-
boretums, since 1963.

MEMBER OF: American Horticultural Society; Union Club; Kirtland Country
Club.

SIXTEEN years of secure scholastic life ended in June, 1940, when
I became a newspaper reporter on the city beat in Cleveland. The
transition from books and theories to the realities of life in a large
city is a stimulating experience that I can recommend heartily as an
antidote for anyone who feels his schooling has provided him with
all the answers. Unfortunately for me, this work lasted for only a
short time and in March, 1941, the train pulled out of the station,
the pretty girls waved goodbye, and a five-year military career

L944 ]

2§5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was underway. During this period my branches of the Army were
varied and the posts numerous, including special training assignments
at Harvard and M.I.T. On V-J Day I was just completing two and
a half years in Panama and was a captain charged with the mainte-
nance of the Army and Air Force radar in the Panama Canal de-
partment.

After this experience, the newspaper, on my return to Cleveland,
transferred me to their radio stations where I worked for five years,
a period when television first came on the scene and almost put
radio out of business.

Manufacturing seemed to offer more gainful employment and for
the next five years I wrestled with the problems of metal forming,
porcelain enameling steel and, of course, the union. In a fortunate
series of events, 1958 found me jobless and deeply interested in the
Holden Arboretum which desperately needed an executive director.
Since then the Arboretum has had its director, and I am enjoying
a productive and satisfying experience.

The Holden Arboretum is one of the youngest in our country;
it was started in 1932 but today comprises 2045 acres and is reputed
to be the largest arboretum in the world. Located thirty miles east
of Cleveland, it owns some of the most beautiful land in northeastern
Ohio, on which we have now accumulated more than 7000 different
species and varieties of woody plants all hardy to the area. In
addition to this very active collecting program, we are deeply in-
volved in teaching aspects of horticulture to adults and have an
extensive nature program for children. Research activities are also
carried on for the benefit of the surrounding commercial nurseries
which still comprise the largest single industry in the county. The
Arboretum itself is a non-profit charity supported corporation. In
an ever-growing metropolitan complex, the Arboretum is helping
many people to maintain their sanity and to appreciate and enjoy
the gifts that nature has bestowed on the land.

Aside from work, which has become almost a hobby it is so en-
grossing, sailing continues to be a prime outside activity and the
acquisition of a summer home at Boothbay Harbor, Maine, has
added greatly to the pleasure of this sport. In winter, the intro-
duction of snow machines and ski tows in Ohio has made us a
family of skiers of apparently average ability; at least the incidence
of broken bones seems about average. Between seasons, my long-
standing interest in numismatics continues with the emphasis still
on American coinage from the colonial period up to the present.

[945 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

DEAN RUSSELL NOYES

 

HOME ApprEss: 169 Braemoor Rd., Brockton, Mass. 02401.

OFFICE ADDRESS: J. K. Lasser & Co., 53 State St., Boston, Mass. 02109.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarRieD: Henrietta Harris Cary, Sept. 8, 1941. CHILDREN: William Cary, March
20, 1944; Frances Winslow, June 3, 1948; Jean Harris, July 10, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Certified public accountant; partner, J. K. Lasser & Company,
accountants and auditors.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, since 1958, member executive and finance committee,
since 1961, treasurer, since 1962, Brockton Hospital.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of C.P.A.s; Massachusetts Society of C.P.A.s;
Old Colony Harvard Club; University Club of Brockton, Beverly Yacht
Club; Mashnee Yacht Club; Paul Revere Lodge, A.F. & A.M.

AND suddenly twenty-five years slipped by. In retrospect a feeling
of turmoil and uncertainty has overshadowed the past and I’m not
so sure the future doesn’t appear that way too. Ours has surely been
a generation of accelerating motion. The transitions from the Model
A, radio and Tri-Motor Ford to atoms, TV and jets have indeed
been a challenge.

My part begins with a one-semester stint at the ““B” School, ma-
chine tool expediting in Hartford in 1941, marriage that fall to
Henrietta whom some of the Dunsterites will remember, and then
December 7th. To that day I owe the Navy more than thanks for
a long carrier ride to Okinawa and assorted way stations to the
South and West; for from that service as a disbursing officer came
my life’s work of accounting. The last eighteen years in that field
have added to the motion — for we have come from the “debits on

the side by the window” concept to the multi-second printers of
A.D.P.

[946]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The vital statistics above will show that we have had three
children, and in their era, motion seems to be a prime requisite
— be it sight or sound. From the “four on the floor” of the male
to the rock and roll and modern math of the females, plus all the
other assorted items of food, dates, TV, Scouts, etc., who has time
to sit down? More than once I’ve wished 1 was programmed to
push a button and solve the current crisis.

Those of the Class who remember my father’s farm and my rural
youth will not understand, any more than I, why I have adopted
sailing for recreation — or escape? Should any of you hear a cry
of “farmer” ringing over Buzzards Bay, it will undoubtedly be one
of my children commenting on a missed buoy or mooring, so
mind your helm.

Hopefully, we move on — ever mindful of cholesterol and those
extra twenty-five pounds that slipped on when the hair departed.

WILLIAM STARLING NUCKOLLS

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 1252 Essex Rd., Winter Park, Fla.

[ 947 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

PAUL EDWARD OGLE

 

Ess: 1676 32d St., N.W., Washington, D.C,

ELI OLASKY

 

Northgate Pk., West Newton, Mass.

Jen High School, Malden, Mass.

: 1936-40. DEGREES: AB, culm laude, 1940; B.J.£. (Hebrew
,, Brookline, Mass.), 1938.

2, Aug. 20, 1945. CHILDREN: Sidney, July 15, 1947; Marvin,

er, religious instructor.

tary, Hebrew Teachers and Principals Association of Bos-
; Scoutmaster, Peabody, Mass., 1960-61.

w Teachers and Principals Association of Boston; National
vish Education; Jewish Reconstructionist Foundation.

y years is a sizeable portion of a lifetime. For many
at least, time flows, reluctantly perhaps, but un-

[ 948 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

obtrusively by. When I think back to some of the youngsters I
have taught and see them now as men, when I observe the constant
changes in my growing sons, I am struck by the flow of years,
blurred, not defined sharply, rather than by a rigid, definite count
of years, It is an occasion like this —a Twenty-fifth Class Reunion
— that brings the actual year-count into focus and forces a re-
capitulation of a quarter-century of activity. And I regret to find
I do not have twenty-five years of achievement to account for
twenty-five years of time, just a list of plus and minus signs, plus
for accomplishment, and minus for what it denotes.

Following graduation, a year at the Graduate School of Arts and
Sciences; World War II and military service in the Army Air Force;
marriage in 1946 (definitely a plus, especially with my wife looking
over my shoulder) and a family—two sons (also a plus, since
they’re looking over the other shoulder), my twenty years in the
field of Jewish education—a mixture of plus and minus signs; I
hope the plus outnumber the minus.

I began teaching in afternoon Hebrew schools during my under-
graduate years, but in 1946 avocation changed to vocation and I’ve
been at it since. That adds up to about twenty years as teacher and
as principal, all in the Boston area except for an experimental two
years in Hollywood, Florida. (Gnats, heat, my wife’s request ended
the experiment.) A few years as summer camp-counselor, an
emergency stint as Scoutmaster, committee work in my teachers
organization, include outside activities.

At present our family interest (as in many other families) is in
the final determination and college destination of our son, now a
high school senior and National Merit semi-finalist. With his ad-
mission, a circle in a sense will be closing and a new cycle beginning.
Looking back these twenty-five years, I hope that his twenty-five
cycle will rotate about a more satisfying and contributive axis.

[949 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JAMES ROBERT O'LEARY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 14 Martin St., Cambridge, Mass,
OFFICE appress: New England Journal of Medicine, 8 Fenway, Boston, Mass.
preparED aT: Alcée Fortier School, New Orleans, La.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: $.B., 77ag7a cum laude, 1940.
MARRIED: Eleanor Mornill Ruggles, June 12, 1941.

occupation: Publishing — medical editor.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston,

GEORGE SCOTT OLIVE, JR.

 

HOME AbpRESS: 7373 Holliday Drive, E., Indianapolis 20, Ind.

OFFICE AppRess: George S. Olive & Co., 120 E. Market St., Indianapolis, Ind.
PREPARED AT: Shortridge High School, Indianapolis, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B. 1940,

MarrieD: Sally Anne Resseguie, Oct. 4, 1941. cHitpren: George Scott, 3d, Oct.

22, 1942; David R., Dec, 18, 1945; James K., May 12, 1946; Anne Elizabeth,
Aug. 14, 1950.
occupation: Certified public accountant, partner,

[ 950 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD; Chairman, Committee on Management Services by C.P.A.s, 1962-
63; member, board of directors, Indianapolis Chamber of Commerce, since
1962, Indianapolis Hospital Development Association, since 1962, Com-
munity Hospital of Indianapolis, since 1962, Indianapolis Zoological So-
ciety, since 1961, Indiana Association of C.P.A.s; member of vestry, Trinity
Episcopal Church.

MEMBER OF: Indianapolis Athletic Club; Meridian Hills Country Club.

PuBLIcaATIONS: “Management Services — A Local Firm Approach,” April, 1960,
Journal of Accountancy; now serving on board of consulting editors,
Management Services.

AFTER graduation I spent a year at the Harvard Business School,
which seemed a much more satisfying, intellectual experience than
that across the Charles, perhaps because I was really forced to
learn to think, and enjoy the process while going through it. Oc-
tober, 1941, was an unsettled period in the world’s affairs and an
excellent time to marry the young lady who has since become the
mother of our four children.

Following this very pleasant experience, I was “called into the
service” in early 1942. At this point the Army was looking for
Finance Department personnel and my “career” progressed from
private to major — most of the time spent teaching other people
how to do things— im the finance officer candidate school and
then in the Army Industrial College in the Pentagon.

In 1946 we returned to civilian life with a minimum of medals
and ribbons and two hungry sons whose needs dictated a gainful
occupation. In the intervening eighteen years a number of things
have happened that will not remake the world, but do add to a
sense of personal satisfaction. A third son and a daughter have
been born, started to mature and are now ready for college and
high school. I am more than happy with my job, which involves
helping other people to do things, and a round of civic activities
that are obviously unequal in quality. My church has been de-
manding of time and allegiance and I believe that I have matured
sufficiently to know that this is as it should be. All in all, I have
been privileged to live a changing life and to enjoy the process.

[ost ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

PAUL OLUM

     
 

ee ays
é . * «*

: —_— (,
“HOME ADDRESS: 424 Hanshaw Rd., Ithaca, N.Y.

OFFICE AppREss: Dept. of Mathematics, Cornell University, Ithaca, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Binghamton Central High School, Binghamton, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-40. DEGREES: A.B., summa cum laude, 1940; A.M. (Prince-
ton Univ.), 1942; pH.p. (Harvard Univ.), 1947.
MarRiED: Vivian Goldstein, June 8, 1942. CHILDREN: Judith Ann, Feb. 9, 1945;
Joyce Margaret, March 14, 1949; Kenneth Daniel, June 13, 196r.
necuPaTION: Professor and chairman, Department of Mathematics, Cornell
University.
AEMBER OF: American Mathematical Society; American Association of Univer-
sity Professors; Book and Bowl Society.
LBLIcATions: A number of papers in mathematical journals.

 

N the fall of 1940, I went to Princeton as a graduate student in
hysics, having changed from my undergraduate major in mathe-
atics out of some sort of conviction that physics was more “real”
an mathematics. Two years later I came to the conclusion that
is was pretty illusory and that one can make quite as good a
ulosophical case for the reality of the formal world of mathematics
for the particular physical world we happen to live in, and any-
mw I liked mathematics better, so I changed back and got an A.M.
It.

But by then — or earlier, in fact—the war years were upon us
d I was, in any case, a physicist for the duration. Until the be-
wining of 1943, I worked on a uranium separation project at
‘nceton, where R. P. Feynman and I constituted the theoretical
ysics division of the operation, after which our whole Princeton
yect went out to Los Alamos to form part of the initial group
ng organized there. I remained a theorctical physicist at Los
mos until the beginning of 1946. My conscience about those days

[ 952 |

cate 0p cence

qpaceapectage ST
asec AN LAN EME EE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the bomb is a somewhat mixed one and I don’t suppose J shall
ever get it straight.

During these years I acquired a wife (the sister of Classmate
Avram Goldstein) and a baby girl, and the spring term of 1946
found us all back in Cambridge. My wife and I were both graduate
students at Harvard and the years were hectic and full of problems
but very good. I got a Ph.D. in June of 1947, then spent a year
as a post-doctoral fellow at Harvard and another one at the Institute
for Advanced Study.

In 1949, I came to Cornell as an assistant professor of mathe-
matics and have been here ever since. My wife, alternating graduate
work and children (a second daughter and, quite recently, a little
boy), got her doctorate in psychology from Cornell some time
after we arrived here, so our family is thoroughly enmeshed in the
academic business.

We've had two leaves from Cornell, for the first of which, being
conscientious and putting work ahead of better things, we went
back to the Institute in Princeton for a year; but the second one was
spent mostly in Paris, with a good deal of traveling around Europe
and a stay of nearly two months in Israel.

I find myself now in pretty much the same setting as under-
graduate days— different university but similar spirit and I’ve
climbed over, of course, to the other side of the academic fence.
I’m even under the illusion that my convictions, social, political and
religious, are just about what they were in 1936-1940 and I have,
for example, considerable nostalgia for the Harvard Student Union
of those undergraduate days.

Finally, [ don’t know whether this is to be regarded also as a
time for looking ahead as well as looking back. Perhaps it’s not
necessary; perhaps the whole point of twenty-five-years-after-
graduation is that by then we’re all pretty well rooted to where we
are. For myself, in any case, [ am quite content to spend the rest
of my time on a university campus. Many of my little boy illusions
about the professorial life are gone, but even without them it’s a
good one.

[953 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

GEORGE ROBERT OSGOOD, Jr.

 

HOME appress: 126 Dexter St, Malden, Mass. 02148.

OFFICE ApprEsS: Vickers Instruments, Inc., 91 Waite St., Malden, Mass

PREPARED AT: Malden High School, Malden, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-40. DEGREE: A.B. cut laude, 1940. :
marRieD: Mary Bagby, July 10, 1943. CHILDREN: Cynthia Joy, May 6, 1944, oo
Mary Susan, May 23, 1946, George Robert, 3d, and Thomas Gibson (twins), _
April 22, 1955. a
occuPATION: Executive vice-president and director, Vickers Instruments, Inc. | :
(subsidiary of Vickers, Ltd.), in charge of North American import and i
marketing of optical instruments. | :
GEORGE WASHINGTON OVERTON : 7

t

‘

 

HOME AppREss: 5728 Woodlawn Ave., Chicago, III. 60637.
OFFICE Avpaess: Overton, Marks & Schwartz, 105 W. Adams St., Chicago, Ill.
60603.

PREPARED AT: Kent School, Kent, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1940, J. (Univ, of
Chicago), 1946.

[954]

re

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Jane V. Harper, Sept. 1, 1941. CHILDREN: Samuel H., Sept. 12, 1943;
Ann V. and Peter D. (twins), Aug. 12, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

MEMBER OF: University Club of Chicago; Quadrangle Club, usual bar asso-
clations,

I SUPPOSE it is obvious that we came out of college about the
time of Marquand’s So Little Time, and the work now seems bitterly
appropriate — there has been little time. Most of it has been spent
in trying to earn a living — practising law — and raising a family.

As to the former, I am the senior —at least the eldest, that is
— partner in a small law firm, after various experiences with three
other firms as an employee or partner. The family economy (as
well as bliss) has been aided by my wife, who is now associate
professor (zoology) at the University of Chicago. I’ve made no
fortune, but have no regrets about the law. My practice has been
varied enough to bring some real contacts with basic problems of
justice — such as I never met when working for a large firm — and
to recognize that the law as a profession is a necessary permanent
part of society (you would be surprised how many successful men
in big corporate firms have gnawing doubts on that question).
Work for defendants in criminal cases who seem determined to
convict themselves, work for local residents who feel betrayed
when. cooperation with urban renewal brings not housing but in-
stitutions on local cleared land —all this kind of experience brings
some compensation for whatever I’ve missed in not sticking with
the thirty-man firm where I started. I’ve had a major part in a
disastrously unsuccessful local magazine, and in a warmly successful
savings and Joan association.

Our children are all in college, full or part time. They will, in
many ways, get a much better education than we received; and I
can sense a vicarious excitement in learning what they do.

As to my spare time, I have given much of it to two fields: adult
education and conservation. I became interested in adult education
because I noted in my own life that a full hunger for certain kinds
of knowledge came to me only as an adult; and miscellaneous reading
did not wholly satisfy these hungers. I have spent much time in
developing study discussion programs for relatively well educated
adults, and I organized the American Foundation for Continuing
Education in 1947, to push this kind of idea around the country.
It has been fun, and also has contributed, I think, to American
education.

[955]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

More recently I have become concerned with disappearing open
land, and working with local groups in seeking to keep the whole
midwest from becoming an unplanned, sprawling suburb.

As to Harvard, I return occasionally — to interview law students
for my firm, or when on legal business in Boston; or, now, to visit
my son at M.I.T. Cambridge is a colorful, fascinating place. When
we were in college, as | remember it, there were vacant stores, and
a generally Puritan and drab atmosphere. Nonetheless, the general
peripheral richness of Cambridge was and is a strong asset of
Harvard.

I'm not sure that the direct impact of Harvard — its classroom
teaching and its attitude toward the intellectual life —was very
satisfying in our college years, When I came to Chicago to go to
law school in 1940, I found, not only in the law school, but even
among undergraduates, a more serious and more mature atmosphere.
And I know that Columbia, to mention another large university,
probably offered a greater probability of direct contact with first-
class teachers.

The asset conferred by Harvard and which, perhaps, only Har-
vard offered was a sense of scale. I think we all went out more
aware that the top of the ladder (whether of wisdom, virtue, leader-
ship or creativity) was many rungs above us, and not just a couple
of steps up. In this sense, Harvard was a great undergraduate ex-
perience — and in this sense, I hope, it will remain one.

WILLIAM THEODORE PACE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2503 Massey Circle, South Charleston, W.Va. 25303.
PREPARED AT: Crosby High School, Waterbury, Conn.

[956 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-40. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1940, PHD. (Yale Univ.),
1943- .

MARRIED: Marjorie Cooke, June 11, 1944.

OCCUPATION: Chemist.

ARTHUR WILSON PAGE, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss: Saw Mill Road, Cold Spring Harbor, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Cities Service Co., 60 Wall St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-40. DEGREE! A.B. 1940.

MarrieD: Anita P, Hadden, Oct. 23, 1948. CHILDREN: Anita Martha, July 18,
1949; Arthur Barclay, Jan. 15, 1951; Roger Lewis, March 26, 1954; Richard
Hadden, April 16, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Walter H. Page, °37; John Hall Page, °43.

occuPATION: Staff executive (petroleum economist), oil and gas business.

OFFICES HELD: Lieutenant commander, USNR; member, Committee on Petro-
Jeum Statistics, American Petroleum Institute; president, Cold Spring
Harbor Beach Club; member, board of directors, United Fund of Hunung-
ton; member, Committee to Visit the Department of History, Harvard

College.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Mining, Metallurgical and Petroleum En-
gineers; Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club; Harvard Club of New York;
Huntington Country Club.

AY last twenty-five years have been spent with very little that is
f newsworthy interest to the world at large, but with a great
eal that has been of interest, excitement and pleasure to me.

For the first five years I was in the Navy, two in Trinidad and
¢ remainder roaming the Pacific on a destroyer escort. We fol-
wed after the shooting by days, weeks or months. There were no
roics, but I had many experiences which left me with the feel-
x that the time was far from wasted.

[957 ]

EAL SEL ERseNN ent inunemenrunsinnuremenemnmernerrrrni —————

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Thereafter, back to the investment business in New York and for
a short time in Chicago. Fine, except I felt the need to be in one
industry rather than working from the outside. So to Cities Service
and on-the-spot activity in the oil fields of Oklahoma and Kansas.

Anita and I were married in 1948 and life gained a new meaning.
After a couple of years in Bartlesville, Oklahoma, we edged back
to New York, eventually to Cold Spring Harbor, where we had
both grown up. Our life might be classified as typically suburban,
but it is all new to us. With four children, now eight to fifteen,
there is very little that goes on that is routine.

School problems, United Fund, the local Beach Club — the whole
gamut of community activities keeps us busy. Then there are sailing,
skiing, skating, fishing and overnight camping trips into the Green
Mountains, all to be crammed into the time left over after keeping
track of the economics and other activities of the oil business.

That’s the beginning — we look forward to more.

+ GARRETT DUNN PAGON

 

BorN: April 20, 1919, Baltimore, Md. Parents: William Watters Pagon, "10,
Katharine Dunn,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1940.

MaRRIED: Madeleine Abbott Kilvert, Nov. 8, 1941, Providence, R.J. CHILDREN:
Garrett Dunn, Jr., Nov. 12, 1945; Madeleine Kilvert, Oct. 16, 19493
Marshall Watters, Jan. 1, 1956; Nicholas Abbott, Sept. 8, 1957; Alexandra
Blye, March 23, 1959.

DIED: June 3, 1960, Nantucket, Mass.

wipow: Mrs. Garrett D. Pagon, Mather Road, Ambler, Pa.

GARRETT DUNN PAGON spent four years with our Class and
[958 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was circulation manager for the Lampoon, After graduation he
joined the Budd Company in Philadelphia, remaining with them for
many years, and when he resigned was assistant to the director of
research. During World War II he served in the U.S. Naval Re-
serve as a lieutenant (j.g.). For our Twentieth Report, Pagon wrote
that he was president of the Genesis Corporation which he or-
ganized to undertake contract research and to do proprietary product
development. He was survived by his wife and children.

JOHN GORHAM PALFREY

 

HOME AbpRESS: 3454 Newark St., N.W., Washington, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., Ct1m laude, 1940; LL.B., 1943 (46).

MARRIED: Clochette Roosevelt, Dec. 26, 1942. CHILDREN: John Gorham, Jr.,
Feb. 25, 1945; Antonia Ford, April 5, 1954.

HARVARD SON: John Gorham Palfrey, Jr., 67.

occupation: Commissioner, U.S. Atomic Energy Commission.

OFFICES HELD: Legal office, U.S. AEC, 1947-50; member, Institute for Advanced
Studies (Princeton), 1950-52; lecturer, 1952, associate professor, 1953, pro-
fessor of law, 1956, Columbia University; dean, Columbia College, 1958-62.

MEMBER OF: Century Association, New York City; Phi Beta Kappa.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles on political and legal aspects of atomic energy.

AFTER graduation I went on to the Law School where I finished
two years before getting into the Enlisted Reserve Corps studying
radar. The day after Christmas, ’42, I married Clochette Roosevelt,
with two days’ leave. My war career was not eventful—a year
as an enlisted man, then OCS at Forth Monmouth and then assign-
ment to Washington in Military Intelligence. I got overseas in

[959]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

September, 1945, to Japan as a member of the Strategic Bombing
Survey.

After the war I finished law school, then joined the legal office
of the Atomic Energy Commission in Washington, just as it got
underway and participated in its growing pains with Congress. Four
years later I went to Princeton at the Institute for Advanced Studies
and spent two fascinating years there while writing about atomic
energy politics and secrecy.

In 1952 I went to Columbia Law School on a legal research project
with a chance to teach as part of the bargain. For the next ten
years we were Columbians, first in the law school, then from 1958
to 1962 in Columbia College, where I was dean. The busiest period
of our lives, I suspect.

In the summer of 1962, President Kennedy asked me to come to
Washington as an Atomic Energy Commissioner, where I have
been ever since. It was not an easy decision leaving after only
four years as dean, but looking back, I would not have missed the
chance to be part of the Kennedy Administration for fifteen months.
Atomic Energy was a particularly good window on the Administra-
tion — close to the center of defense and foreign policy issues and
of power development.

Thus Washington and New York have been our principal centers,
and we have a different fondness for each. Boston family and now

a sophomore son at Harvard have brought us back to Cambridge.
We also try to keep track of a mercurial ten-year-old daughter.

We travel abroad whenever the university or government provides
us with a reputable excuse.

[ 960 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES WARREN PALM

 

HOME ApprEss: Woodland, Route 3, Wayzata, Minn. 55391.
OFFICE ADpRESS: Palm Brothers, Inc., 2727 Nicollet Ave., Minneapolis, Minn.

55408. ,
PREPARED AT: Blake School, Hopkins, Minn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarrieD: Agnes Grayce Johnstone, Dec. 29, 1939. CHILDREN: Nancy Pauline,
May 20, 1941 (7. James Kelsey Countryman, June 22, 1962); Susan Audrey,
April 5, 1944; Joanne Agnes, April 4, 1948. cRaNvcHiLp: Stephen James
Countryman, June 1, 1963.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Reuben Nicholas Palm, Jr., 50; Robert Lodge Palm, ’53.

occuPaTION: Secretary, Palm Brothers, Inc., designers and installers of complete
food service facilities for restaurants, cafeterias, hospitals, etc.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Blake Schoo] Alumni Association, 1940-50;
president, Groveland Lakeside Assembly, 1947-52; mayor of Woodland,

Minn., since 1953.
MEmaBER oF: Excelsior Methodist Church; Young Life Campaign, Groveland

Lakeside Assembly; Woodland Village Council.

IT just so happens I am writing this 25th Anniversary Harvard
Report on my wife’s birthday, which reminds me that we will be
celebrating our 25th wedding aniversary only two months from
now. We have a lot to be thankful for in our three charming daugh-
ters and are especially proud of our grandson Stephen. Having had
three brothers and no sisters, I decided to have all girls —a plan
which I faithfully executed. Any Harvard material will be the
sole responsibility of my daughters.

Before I leave my wife, I must state that my dream as a young
man has been and is still being fulfilled, namely, to marry a gal
who would be forever young and eternally beautiful. Believe me,
she would easily win any “most beautiful grandmother contest.”
I guess it must be that good Scotch blood in her. While my wife

[ 961 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

continues to stay young, I keep getting older, The final crushing
blow came a few years ago when my youngest, Jolly, whipped me
on the tennis court. Now all three daughters skunk me regularly
in tennis. As for my wife, I have never beaten her — in tennis,
that is. She still plays a mean game and her nickname, “Ace,” is
certainly apropos. For many years now Ace and my eldest, Nancy,
have been winning the annual Minnesota Mothers and Daughters
Tennis Tournament. Incidentally, Nancy has been capturing tennis
titles on her own here in the Upper Midwest since she was thirteen
years old and literally has dozens of trophies to prove it.

Our middle daughter, Susan, has the rare talent of bringing out
the beauty in even the simplest thing. Right now she is making good
use of her talents in an interior decorating shop. Last spring she
graduated from Endicott Junior College in Beverly, Massachusetts.
Next spring she will be married to Philip Morris who is in college
majoring in business administration.

Jolly, our youngest daughter, is correctly named. She is good-
looking, a bubbler, a cheerleader in high school and also a book-
worm. Fortunately, there will be a financial breather before she
enters college and finally gets married.

Oh yes, I almost forgot this sketch is supposed to be about me,
but after twenty-five years in a house dominated by women, I
really don’t count. At the office, however, I am happily earning
a living along with two brothers and my mother who is still active
in the family business despite her seventy-six years. As long as
people have to eat, our business of designing and installing restaurants

should continue to be good. Any drive and success in making
money, however, I definitely owe to my father.

For the good of our community, humbly speaking, I have been
the mayor of our village since 1953. Unlike my former classmate
who rose to the top of his country, I am a conservative Republican
guiding the destiny of some qoo people in my little village of
Woodland. My pay is thirty dollars per year, which I am sure

is thirty times too much if you were to run a poll among my
constituents. The other big difference between our local govern-
ment and Washington is that Woodland has no employees, thousands
of dollars in the bank, and the same tax mill rate as in 1948 when
Woodland started.

About my wife and daughters I could write much more, but as
for me that’s all there is.

[ 962 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HAROLD CORNELIUS PALMER

 

ADDRESS: 4 E. 89th St., New York, N.Y. 10028.

ANDREW EVANGELOS PAPPASTERGION

 

ApprEss: 86 Brook St., Brookline 46, Mass.

[ 963 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

HALFORD WOODWARD PARK, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Cove Rd., Old Greenwich, Conn.

OFFICE appress: Budington, St. John & Park, 22 W. Elm St., Greenwich, Conn.
PREPARED AT: St. George's School, Newport, R.1.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREES: A.B., ctt7m laude, 1940(39)5 LL.B., 1942.

marrieD: Helen Margaret Greene, March 18, 1944. CHILDREN: Cornelia, May
24, 1945; George, April 19, 1948; Halford, Dec. 23, 1950; Lothian, Sept. 18,
1955; Margaret, Oct. 14, 1956.

occupation: Partner in law firm, Budington, St. John & Park.

OFFICES HELD: President, Greenwich Bar Association; member, Greenwich Rep-

resentative Town Meeting, since 1962; president, Greenwich Lions Club,
1962-63.
MEMBER OF: Greenwich Cove Racing Association; Riverside Yacht Club.

AFTER graduating from the Harvard Law School in 1942, by
courtesy of the very high draft number I drew, I took the bar
exam for New York. The Navy intervened at this point and sent
me to Harvard Indoctrination School where I reviewed what I had
studied in three years of Naval ROTC. Nevertheless, the summer
was not wasted as it enabled me to see a good deal more of Peggy
Greene who was in nurse’s training at Massachusetts General Hos-
pital and who eventually consented to be Mrs. P. After my third
graduation at Harvard I entered the mazes of BuAir in Washington
to work for the Navigation Section of the Special Devices office,
remaining until the fall of ’43 when I went for aircraft mainte-
nance training to CalTech, then to Bethpage to watch Grumman
Hell Cats under construction, then to Westerly, Rhode Island,
where I got two days’ Icave to marry Peggy, and finally to the
carrier Ticonderoga where I spent the remainder of the war. We
ate pretty well, and either this or marriage shot my weight from
the usual 165 pounds to my present 210.

[ 964 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Somewhere in the Pacific I lost my urge to add to New York
City’s pool of legal talent, and settled down to live in my wife’s
home town of New Canaan and practice in Greenwich. That word
practice is a good description of the young lawyer at work.
Gradually I became more proficient in real estate transactions, de-
ceased estates and similar rear line legal work and lost whatever
instinct I'd had to become a Perry Mason. This I think is just as
well since the exigencies of a trial practice are a constant interrup-
tion to any schedule of office appointments, and the part time trial
lawyer is constantly waiting on his confreres with a full time trial
practice.

For a sailor it is especially important to schedule his time in
advance. Races, cruises and maintenance work must be laid out in
advance and are most demanding of time. I started innocently
enough racing a Rhodes 1g on weekends, then bought a 35-foot
sloop which was primarily a cruising boat, and now have a 41-foot
yawl that we both race and cruise with summer starting in Mav
and ending with October. Fortunately the entire family has
become accustomed to life afloat and even claim to enjoy it. With
my wife and between three and five children we have been to
Maine the last few years, and in 1963 got as far as Halifax. Finding
it difficult to commute the long distance from New Canaan to
Greenwich, we moved here in 1949 and have stayed put ever
since, and hope that this state of affairs will continue. My eldest
daughter is at Briarcliff, one son at Berkshire, the second at the
Greenwich Country Day School, and the youngest two girls at
the Old Greenwich School. All of them seem to be far more
advanced in their studies than I was at equivalent ages. Sartoriallvy,
however, I think the Harvard of today may just possibly have
regressed a hair, and [ might add that I am not now and never
was known as a Beau Brummel.

[ 965 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.10

CHARLES PARKIN, II

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 2000 Spindrift Drive, La Jolla, Calif.

DONALD GRAY PARROT

 

HOME Appress: 75 Bridge St., Manchester, Mass.

OFFICE aporess: John G. Alden & Co., Inc., 131 State St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937, 1938-1939.

16, 1945, Steven H., June 17, 1948.

Marriep: Margot Travers Howell, July 26, 1941. cHmoren: David Gray, April
HARVARD BROTHER: Hadley Parrot, °43.

OCCUPATION: President, John G. Alden & Company, Inc., yacht designers and
brokers.

OFFICES HELD: President, Yacht Architects and Brokers Association, 1961~62.
mMemBeER oF: Cruising Club of America; Manchester Yacht Club.

AFTER leaving college I worked as a trainee for the Sun Oil
Company for a year and then joined the Coast Guard and spent

[ 966 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

most of the years of the war on sailing yachts doing coastal patrol
duty. In 1941 I was married, and as my wife was attending Rad-
cliffe, we made Cambridge our base. On my discharge from the
Coast Guard, my wife liking boats as much as I, we bought an old
schooner and with our six months’ old son headed for southern
waters. That winter was spent in the Bahamas and Cuba, the next
in Newfoundland building another schooner, then back to the
Bahamas for another winter with a second new son added to the
crew.

The foot-loose life ended then, we moved ashore, and I gravitated
into the boat business and went to work for John Alden, taking
over from him on his retirement in 1955. While we have not de-
signed a twelve-meter, we have done some interesting boats, and
occasionally have had the pleasure of designing boats for classmates
who were sensible and became bankers, lawyers and doctors.

Our elder son, David, went to Dublin School in New Hampshire
and then to Nasson College, and is now taking a year off to work
in Boston. Steven is in his third year at Exeter and hopes to try
for Harvard. It is hard to realize that a quarter of a century has
slipped by.

DONALD PARSON, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 136 E. 55th St., New York, N.Y. 10022.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938,

MarriED: Helen Andrews, April, 1942. CHILDREN: Jane, 1944; Sallie Tod, 1945;
Susan Maria, 1949.

FROM college I went to Youngstown, Ohio, where I started and
operated a radio/electronic and recording business. This continued

[ 967 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

until I got my “greetings” and entered the Army in January, 1942.
I was married to Helen Andrews of Youngstown in April of that
year, and a few months later shipped to Trinidad where I remained
more or less for the next two years. My last year as a G.I. was
spent in Delray Beach, Florida, from where I commuted to Boca
Raton as a radar maintenance instructor. Not too arduous an
assignment!

After leaving the Army we moved around some, eventually wind-
ing up in Framingham, from where [ commuted to M.I.T.’s Radia-
tion Lab. A couple of years of this, and we moved to Osterville,
on the Cape, and a job at Woods Hole Oceanographic, this for
five years. .

We then moved to St. Thomas, Virgin Islands, for the next eight
or nine years, during which time the children were ensconsed in
the local private school and loving it. We, too, weren’t complaining
too much either.

After the children outgrew the St. Thomas school, we moved
back to the States, and the above address. The children incidentally
comprise the following: Jane Andrews, twenty, Sallie Tod, nine-
teen, and Susan Maria, fifteen.

IRVING JAMES PASS

 

MAILING ADDRESS; 159 Jason St., Arlington 74, Mass,

[ 968 J

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES MACKAY PAUL

 

HOME ADDRESS: 7205 W. 27th Ave., Lakewood, Colo. 80215.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 8790 W. Colfax Ave., Lakewood, Colo. 80215.

PREPARED AT: York High School, York, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; M.D. (Johns Hopkins Univ.),

1943.

MARRIED: Kathryn Pace, Dec. 2, 1943 (divorced 1954); Ruth Maxine Price, May
18, 1957 (divorced 1963); Phyllis Bell Lahman, July 15, 1964. CHILDREN:
Carolyne, Jan. 12, 1945; Robert Harold, July 19, 1951 (died Feb. 29, 1952);
James Mackay, Jr., May 6, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Physician (ear-nose-throat), private practice.

OFFICES HELD: Instructor, Dept. of Surgery (otorhinolaryngology), Stanford
University School of Medicine, San Francisco, 1943-45; instructor im sur-
gery (otorhinolaryngology), University of Colorado School of Medicine,
Denver, Colo., 1956-57; (part-time teaching while in medical practice).

MEMBER OF: Colorado Otolaryngological Society; Clear Creek Valley Medical
Society; Colorado Medical Society; American Medical Association,

LIFE since 1940 has been a mixture of ups and downs, many suc-
cesses with some failures. But overall I have developed a maturity
which would have been a great asset back in my undergraduate days
at Harvard. After receiving my M.D. degree at Johns Hopkins
in 1943, and an internship in Pennsylvania in 1944, I found myself
as medical officer with an infantry combat unit in Germany and
Austria in combat and later occupational duty until late i 1946.
On return home I spent three years in graduate medical training, one
year at Washington University School of Medicine in St. Louis,
and two years at Geisinger Hospital in Danville, Pennsylvania.

The year 1950 found me setting up in private medical practice in
ear-nose-throat in California, I was board certified in my specialty
in 1951. After doing quite well there I left California for a variety
of reasons in 1956, settling in the mile-high city of Denver late in

[ 969 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

1956. Since then I have been in this present location, living in the
suburb of Lakewood, except for a temporary period of absence
of about a vear (in Pennsylvania) during 1959-60. ] hope to stay
in colorful Colorado from now on.

When professional work isn’t keeping me busy, | still enjoy
photography as a hobby. 1 get too little physical exercise as the
scales daily indicate. 1 am optimistic about the future of this
country, in spite of all the nuclear threats, as I feel there are
still enough level-headed people in the country, and in the govern-
ment offices, to keep a steady hold on all matters of importance.
Geographical distance has kept me from attending Class Reuntons,
but Tl be in Cambridge at least in spirit in June, 1965.

WILLIAM BENJAMIN PAXSON, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 132 Butler St., Kingston, Pa.

L970]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM ROBERT PEARMAIN

 

HOME AppREss: Winter Street, Lincoln, Mass.; mail, P.O. Box 248, Lincoln
Center, Mass. 01751.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hunneman & Co., Inc., 19 Congress St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Avon Old Farms, Avon, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarRIED: Claire Anne Porter, June 14, 1952. CHILDREN: Elissa Davy, Aug. 12
1954; Victoria Pierce, Oct. 25, 1955; William Robert, June 22, 1959.

occuPATION: Real estate; realtor —broker and appraiser of residential real
estate for Hunneman & Company, Inc., in charge of the Lincoln, Weston,
Wayland and Sudbury area.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Lincoln Branch, Concord Red Cross Chapter, 1954-
5§: deacon, First Parish Church, Lincoln, 1963-66.

MEMBER OF: Valley Pond Association, Lincoln Land Conservation Trust; Lin-
coln Fair Housing Committee; Lincoln Historical Society; Soley Lodge,
A.F. & A.M.

SELLING residential real estate is a cinch for anyone who has lived
in a house, so it is thought. However, to turn a part-time pastime
into a profession both satisfying and reasonably remunerative, it
does no harm to have majored in economics, leaned over the old
drawing board for a year of architecture at M.L.T., and done a war-
shortened stint at the Harvard Business School. Add to these thirty-
nine months of broadening travel, chasing Der Desert Fox through
North Africa, and I] Duce up the length of Italy, with the American
Field Service.

Other more practical experience might include starting at the
bottom as carpenter’s helper, factory hand and then assistant sales
manager and house designer for the E. F. Hodgson Company, first
manufacturer of prefabricated houses — 1897!; “eighteen months as
a project planner with the Massachusetts State Housing Board where

[971 ]

LTE

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

one might observe that professional public housers seemed more in.

terested in power and their projects than the people in them, not

to mention socialism in lieu of private enterprise.

There is excellent background to be gained in building houses
speculatively on one’s own, as I did in 1951, gathering useful ex-
perience and a wonderful wife whom I hope to bring to all sub-
sequent Reunions. Developing land led us to Lincoln, Massachusetts,
where we reside happily in the midst of eleven acres of fields, woods
and swamp, about ten miles from Harvard Square.

Before joining Hunneman & Company in 1953, and before life
became so fascinating and fully occupied with heir and heiresses,
we took a leisurely three-month journey through Europe, including
bicycling through the Dordogne Valley in France and the Place de
la Concorde, against the not so leisurely five o’clock Parisian rush
hour traffic!

Since then, appraising and selling houses, land and estates in the
area west of Boston, in Weston, Wayland, Sudbury and Lincoln
has proved challenging and rewarding. Correctly matching people
and towns requires a fine understanding of both. Appraising is at
once a science and an art requiring considerable experience and
study. Having a hand in planning the best use of land for the present
and posterity is fascinating, especially in an area where one- and
two-acre lots are the rule.

It has been a satisfaction to witness the slow but steadily increas-
ing enlightenment in the suburbs vis-a-vis racial and religious dis-
crimination and to be able to lend a hand in a small way via the
local Fair Housing Commitee and a very active church. |

When we're not in Lincoln, you might bump into us hiking on
Mt. Monadnock, or skiing on Cannon Mountain in New Hampshire,
or sailing between Wianno and Cotuit, at Cape Cod.

[972]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM BENSON PEAVEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 420 E. 55th St., New York, N.Y. 10022.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Adam Young, Inc., 3 E. 54th St., New York, N.Y. 10022.

PREPARED AT; Southold High School, Southold, Long Island, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarriED: Dorothy Wightman, March 19, 1944 (divorced 1964). CHILDREN: Wil-
liam Benson, Jr., Jan. 15, 1947; George Wightman, Oct. 26, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHER: Simon Fillmore Peavey, 3d, ’37.

OCCUPATION: National sales manager, Adam Young, Inc., television station rep-
resentatives,

FOR the last year I have been living in New York City where |
was born. Since graduation I have lived in Boston, New York,
Connecticut and, for thirteen years, San Francisco.

One hour after graduation I received a commission as an ensign
in the Naval Reserve along with the other seniors in our ROTC
unit. The Navy pulled an April Fool’s joke to its practical ultimate
and called me to active duty in rgq1 on April first while I was
working in a Boston brokerage office. That experience lasted until
late 1945 and started on a converted yacht, progressed to subchasers
and saw its glorious finale on a converted yacht. I cruised through
the Atlantic, the Caribbean and the Mediterranean from Maine to
Trinidad and from Norfolk to Mers El Kabir. I trained American
submarines, chased enemy ones, escorted convoys and led landing
forces to the correct beaches. I saw action in North Africa, Sicily,
Salerno and Anzio, and was decorated by the British and the United
States (Legion of Merit) for action at Anzio where I was senior
officer in charge of a flotilla of subchasers. After the hurly-burly
of the splinter Navy I was transferred to Columbia as an instructor
of seamanship and the officer in charge of a converted yacht.

During the hurly-burly I found that my old values were changed

[973 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

and that I was no longer satisfied with my former ambitions, ]
went to a testing laboratory and asked them how I could relate
to the new world. They suggested areas which sent me into broad-
cast which was radio in those days. [ went to work for Hooper
as publisher of his Hooperatings and learned about the broadcast
industry for four years. By then television was starting as a force;
I moved to San Francisco and joined it as a television station repre-
sentative where | deal in the commercial side of television stations.
I still find it a stimulating business.

In San Francisco | fell in love with a city and the love affair lasted
for thirteen years. I designed and built a beautiful house in Mill
Valley, revived my interest in Japanese gardens, joined in local
and county civic affairs, performed in Gilbert and Sullivan produc-
tions, promoted the arts with the Bohemian Club, discovered the
wilderness areas of the Sierra and just plain enjoyed those wonder-
ful full-living, fun-loving westerners (most of whom are from the
East).

I left San Francisco abruptly with the announcement of my
divorce and moved back to New York which is headquarters for
the television industry. It has been an abrupt change and I am
starting again with the considerable advantage of experience and

maturity. The setback was depressing, the recovery successful
and the world once again is my oyster.

ROBERT LOUIS PECSOK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 15321 DePauw St., Pacific Palisades, Calif. go272.

orrice appress: Dept, of Chemistry, University of California, Los Angeles,
Calif. goo24.

preparen at: Richfield High School, West Richfield, Ohio,

[974]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: $.B. Sterna ctor lade, tua, PUB, toad.

marrigeD: Mary Bodell, Oct. 12, 1940. cHitnren: Mary Helen, Now. ra. teas,
Katherine Ann, Jan. 11, 1944 (7m. William Garrett Capune, June i wi,

Jean Nancy, June 3, 1948, Michael Henry, May 20, 1950, Ruth Elizabeth,
Feb. 7, 19523; Alice Rose, Sept. 19, 1955; Sara Jane, Aug. 26, 1044.
occupaTIon: Professor of chemistry and graduate adviser, Universuty of Cab.

fornia at Los Angeles.
OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Southern California Section, American Chere al So

ciety, 1961.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi; Alpha Chi Sigma, Phi Pamtata Up.
silon,; American Chemical Society; American Institute of Chemras, Cals.
fornia Association of Chemistry Teachers; Pacific Palisades Demucratec

Club.
pusLications: Principles and Practice of Gas Chromatograpky, John Wilev,

New York, 1959; about forty research articles in professional chem sl

journals.
TWENTY-FIVE years ago I left Harvard prepared, 1 thought, to
make my way in the business world. Procter & Gamble offcred the
highest starting salary and what seemed like a great future, Shortly
after I found myself in Baltimore working for a Yale man. Looking
after a department full of girls wrapping soap wasn’t the challenge |
had expected, so when I won the factory pool for the lowest draft
number, it was time for a change. I beat the Draft Board and joined
the Navy. Two years on a seaplane tender took me to far-otf
places — mostly on the other side of the Pacific where the environ-
ment was sometimes hot with kamikazes at Okinawa and semetitnes
cool with beer on Mog Mog.

Ten months at the Navy Aerological School at the University of
Chicago had left me with the idea that what I really w anted to do
was to teach — perhaps because I would have preferred teaching
duty to sea duty. At any rate, after World War Il. the GL Pal
looked very big and very good, so it was back to Plarvard for a
Ph.D. Jarvis Court with its temporary housing was a far ery from
Dunster House but a very casy walk to Mallinckrodt, Some toe
years (and one more child — the third) later, It was time fe trove
again. UCLA offered money, sunshine, a fast-growing department
with an aggressive chairman, and a retiring analytical cherwt I
was a wise choice, except that I have very little bargaimng power: -
I couldn’t be serious about an offer to move clew here.

The last sixteen years can be accounted for by faces iv tee
dossier — courses taught, theses directed, talks given meetin sat
tended, committees served on, papers published (always dere.
first!), promotions more or less on schedule, Gayyenhevn ho ms

[975]

<

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

(1956-57), American Chemical Society Petroleum Research Fund
International Award (1963-64), etc. These are the items that ease
my conscience when I collect my salary from the taxpayers of
California for my two hours of lectures each week. The genuine
rewards are harder to describe —the (sometimes) warm applause
at the last lecture of a course, the former students who go on to do
a better job than their teacher, the ever-increasing number of people

who recognize you and bother to tell you that they learned some- '
thing worth knowing, the chance to travel widely. These rewards :
are not mine alone — I willingly pass them along to those who taught

me.

Tam really a family man. A glance at the heading will prove that.
Space will not permit the usual remarks about each and every one of
our offspring. They are all great, but Michael, by his own ad-
mission, is the greatest. We have lived in Denmark for a year and
in Cambridge, England, for another — places J never even dreamed
of seeing when I was a boy. Through all this, my wife has managed
to maintain her sanity and on occasion has found time for the type-
writer (Gullible’ Travels, Dodd Mead, 1963).

We are probably not a typical Harvard family — we do not be-
long to charitable organizations, golf clubs, churches, Scouts, and the
like (PTA dues seem to be unavoidable, however). I had a fling as
an elder in the Presbyterian Church and another as chairman of the
local SANE chapter, but neither proved to be my cup of tea. The
phone is already too busy with a houseful of teen-agers.

Are my ambitions realized? More about that in the Fiftieth An-
niversary Report. At the moment, I can say definitely yes and
definitely no — the former because I have managed a fuller life than
I expected, the latter because the goals keep getting still higher.
Last year | went to work with Howard Purnell in Cambridge ex-
pecting to come up with a Nobel Prize-winning idea while drinking
in pubs. The prize is as far away as ever, but | may write an an-
notated guide to Cambridge pubs. The sequel will be a guide to
Cambridgeshire parish churches with tips on monumental brass

rubbing —a hobby which caused us to spend much time on our
knees in churches developing calluses and a love of English history.

Our politics are liberal. As the man said (Purcell, I believe),
“Other things being equal, I am a Republican, but for the last
thirty years, things just haven’t been equal.” We support the Demo-
cratic Party but not very actively. We also support the Council for
a Liveable World — now run by a Yale man whom I admire.

[ 976 }

Ueidewste te 1

senate PEE
« egerenmapimcng apa IEE

  

ee,
Skin

EN es ois ae:

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Finally, I support Harvard. There is no doubt whatever that the
goals, the policies, the standards—even the salary scales — for
higher education in America are determined to a large extent in
Cambridge, Massachusetts. The rest of us are glad to follow.

JOSEPH CARROLL PEDEN, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 51 Fair Oaks Drive, St. Louis 24, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 100 N. Euclid Ave., St. Louis 8, Mo.

PREPARED AT: John Burroughs School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1940; M.D. cum laude,
1943.

MARRIED: Kathryn Virginia Bies, June 2, 1942. CHILDREN: Joseph Carroll, 3d,
March 17, 1945; Carol Anne, Dec, 1, 1948; Mary Kathleen, July 28, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Physician (specialty: general surgeon).

OFFICES HELD: President-elect, Hodgen Surgical Club,

MEMBER OF: American, Missouri and St. Louis Medical Associations, St. Louis
Surgical Society; Central Surgical Association; American College of
Surgeons; Hodgen Surgical Club.

PuBLications: “A Consideration of Indications for Preoperative Transfudens
Based on Analysis of Blood Volumes, etc.,” Avmals of Surgery, 1960, “Right
Hepatic Lobectomy, etc.,” Cancer, 1963; “Intravenous Protein Hydroly-
sates,” Archives of Surgery, 1963; “The Influence of an Anabolic Agent
on the Nitrogen Balance, etc.,” Archives of Surgery, 1960.

TO summarize the past twenty-five years can be surprisingly easy
if one includes only the relatively important and unusual and ships
the rather ordinary and every day events. Having made a decision
to become a physician and having been fortunate enough to be
accepted by the Harvard Medical School, the first ten years after
college pretty much follow a predictable pattern. The four years
spent at the Harvard Medical School were, if anything, even more

[977]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

pleasant than those in college, and the association with similarly
suffcring students was quite close. At the same time, many of the
advantages of the College were still quite available so that life in the
Medical School scemed to compare favorably in most ways with
that of the College. The last six months of the senior year in medical
school were considerably marred, however, by the encroachments
of the US. Army, and even though this was a relatively short period,
at graduation there was a definite and uncomfortable sensation that
we were primarily receiving a commission in the U.S. Army and
quite secondarily an M.D. degree.

The next cight years were divided between residency training in
general surgery requiring six years which was interrupted midway
by two years of service in the U.S. Army. The latter experience
contributed little to my preparation for the practice of surgery but
afforded opportunitics to spend a short month in San Antonio,
Texas, and about six very pleasant months in Springfield, Missouri,
with daily opportunities for golf during the last six weeks when the
O'Reilly General Hospical was being closed. A few months’ visit to
the San Francisco-Oakland area was enjoyable and preceded a
year of service overseas in China. This year I regard as an in-
teresting and valuable experience even though it meant separation
from my family which at that ame included my wife and one child.

The subvequent | years up to the present have been largely devoted
to the practice of surgery which in itself can be quite absorbing and
perhaps at times restrictive on the variety of avocational activities,
In regard to accomplishinents over this period of time, 1 would have
to begin with a continuing enthusiasm for the profession of medi-
cine and in particular for the surgical specialty, Although demand-
ing, there are many occasions for short but very interesting trips to
various parts of the country to attend professional meetings and
certainly one of the most interesting to me took place a few years
ago in Boston, Massachusetts. It was somewhat of a rediscovery to
tind the city so complete in its facilities of all kinds which might
INLETESe @ VISITOT,

To list other apparent accomplishments requires mention of my
family (for whose achievements I have often accepted credit w hen-
ever posible), No doubt it will be adequate simply to mention that
my wife has found it reasonably possible to continue our associa-
tion with a minimum of complaints. My son Joe played much better
football in high school than I ever did at Winthrop House, and
while he has not yet decided against medicine as a profession I have

1978]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

an idea that anyone who can induce me to purchase him a second-
hand car within a week or two after damaging my automobile while

putting it in the garage is very likely to make a good salesman.
Carol, sixteen years old, also demonstrates good ability in the

management of automobiles and most notably when she drove into

our outdoor light standard which is located at least four feet off the

driveway and had not been touched before by any other auto.
Kathy is eleven and during the past year very unobtrusively was able
to conceal from me that she had appendicitis until the appendix had
ruptured, This really did not reflect well on me and I am still in-
venting explanations.

Additional present interests include my golf game which I think

I can honestly say is relatively unimproved in the past twenty-five
vears, fishing of all varieties but with a limited degree of success,
and contract bridge, particularly enjoyed with friends who lose
more often than they win.

Twenty-five years later I may now be properly impressed with
the greatness of Harvard College and the University. This has be-
come more evident with opportunities to see a few other schools and
to hear of many of them as young people return and report their
observations of other institutions. My only other remarks would be
in strong support of education to the point that any individual is
able to absorb it and needs it, the value of the study of the ex-
periences and observations of others, and the equally important value
of learning that all of the information needed is not found in books

but must come in part from one’s own experience.

ROBERT MORRIS PEEBLES

 

ME apprEss: 30 Upper Loudon Rd., Loudonville, N.Y. 12211.
[979]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

OFFICE ApprEss: Capital Cities Broadcasting Corp., Box 590, Albany, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarrieD: Gertrude Keeler, Nov. 15, 1941, CHILDREN: Robert Morris, Jr., July

11, 1945; Joan Evelyn, March 12, 1948; David Keeler, July 20, 1949; Sally
Jerome, April 11, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Chalmers Peebles, ’42, M.D., ’51.

occupation: Broadcasting; vice-president, Capital Cities Broadcasting Corpora-
tion; general manager, Radio Station WROW.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Kingston Broadcasting Corporation,
1950-59, WKNY-TV Corporation, 1954-57; director, Greylock Broadcast-
ing Company, Inc., 1958-61, Kingston Lions Club, 1957-59, Kingston Area
Chamber of Commerce, 1954-56; president and director, Kingston Indus-
trial Development Corporation, 1955-59; secretary and director, Tri-Cities
Area Advertising Club, since 1963; secretary-treasurer, Harvard Club of

Eastern New York, since 1964; director, Berkshire Farm School, since
1964, Chapel Hill School, since 1964.

MEMBER OF: ‘Wolfert’s Roost Country Club; Greater Albany Chamber of Com-
merce; Sales and Marketing Executives of Eastern New York.

THE transition from four relatively carefree, irresponsible and
happy years at college to the more serious business of earning a
living, striving for success in a highly competitive field and sup-
porting a growing family led me for too many years to take myself
and my work far too seriously.

My nose was first pressed to the grindstone at the National Broad-
casting Company in New York where I started as a page in the
fall of 1940 at the munificent salary of fifteen dollars per week.
Following “graduation” from the NBC announcing school, I worked
successively as a staff announcer for NBC radio stations in Olean
and Jamestown, New York, and Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania.

Rejected by the Navy, I was finally drafted into the Army and
fought the “Battle of Donaphan Drive” with the Signal Corps at
Camp Crowder, Missouri.

Program directing, sales and management experience at radio and
television stations in Keene, New Hampshire, and Kingston, New
York, preceded my present situation as general manager of WROW
Albany and vice-president of Capital Cities Broadcasting Corpora-
tion, one of the fastest-growing of the “group” operators. WROW’s
policy of carefully chosen “good music,” highly produced program
features, many of which are based on the history, folklore and
natural beauty of New York’s Capital District, and a strict limita-
tion on the amount of time allotted to commercials has achieved
high ratings and excellent acceptance by national and local adver.

[ 980 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
tisers. In 1963, I attended an Executive Development Seminar at
the Harvard Business School given in cooperation with the National

Association of Broadcasters.
Entered into initially with possible business benefits in mind, I

have found civic work in service clubs, Chambers of Commerce and
fund-raising drives worthwhile and rewarding in itself. Recent
activities with the Harvard Club have included the fascinating op-
portunity of interviewing candidates for admission to Harvard
College and have kindled in me renewed interest in and appreciation

of Harvard.
Our children now range in age from nine to nineteen. With the

two older away at school, Dad is trying hard to keep up with the
younger ones on the ski slopes, golf course, tennis courts and sail-
ing on Lake George and at Cape Cod where we have somehow
managed to spend part of each summer for the past nineteen years.
Other hobbies include record collecting, photography, woodworking
and handball about twice a week during the winter months.

From carefree college days to a far too serious absorption in
business and career the pendulum of my life has now swung nearer
center and a better balance between work, relaxation and recreation.
With this has come the realization that life can be much more
fun and vastly more rewarding when these ingredients are blended
in the proper proportions.

As the years rush by, I am constantly reminded of the importance
of understanding how to motivate and develop the capacitics of
people and of the vital role they play in the success of any venture
—and of the fallacy of taking oneself too seriously.

[ 981 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

EDMUND CONVERSE PEIRCE, II

 

HOME ADDRESS: 882 Barton Woods Rd., Atlanta, Ga. 30307.

oFFIcE Appress: Dept. of Surgery, Emory University, Atlanta, Ga. 30322

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1936-1940. DEGREES: 8.B. cu? laude, 1940; M.D. cum laude, 1943.

marrige: Jane Bradshaw, June, 1942 (divorced 1951); Olive L. Day, Jan. 1,
1952. CHILDREN: Marjorie Girdwood, Sept. 24, 1952; Edmund Converse, 3d,
June 10, 1954; Elizabeth Day, July 15, 1956; George Edison, March 5, 1959.

OCCUPATION: Associate professor of surgery and physiology, Emory University,
primary responsibility: research, secondary: teaching.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, American Society for Artificial Internal Organs

MEMBER oF: American Board of Surgery (diplomate); American College of
Surgeons (fellow); American Society for Artificial Internal Organs,
Southern Thoracic Surgical Association; International Cardiovascular So-
ciety; Society of Vascular Surgery; American Association of Anatomists;
New York Academy of Sciences; Mount Desert Island Biological Labora-

tory,

PuBLicaTIoNs: Approximately seventy-five papers published, including Peirce,
E. C, 2d, “Renal Lymphatics,” Anatomical Record, 1944, Gross, R. E.,
Bill, A. H., and Peirce, E. C., 2d, “Methods for Preservation and Trans-
plantation of Arterial Grafts,” Surgery, Gynecology and Obstetrics, 1949;
Peirce, E. C, 2d, “The Membrane Lung: A Critical Study of a New
Multiple Point Support for Teflon Film,” Surgery, 1962; Peirce, E. C., 2d,
“A Simplified Approach to Obtaining and Recording Acid-Base Informa-
tion in Surgical Patients,” Annals of Surgery, 1962.

AF TER an accelerated surgical internship at the Brigham for ten
nonths, I was actively with the Army for two years. Included was
severe, acutely frustrating period of idleness on Tinian Island
ntil the surrender of Japan, and then an interesting time with the
filitary Government in Korea. In the fall of 1946, I started a year
f pathology at the Children’s Hospital, and while working on a
inical project in chemotherapy of cancer, learned something of

[ 982 ]

 

 

NCE NEE IIMA I OME TE EE"

dk

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

medical empire building. There followed a year in the Surgical

Research Laboratory at the Children’s Hospital, under Dr. Robert

Gross and Dr. Orvar Swenson. At that time, my wife and I had

a 100-plus-year-old house on Strong Place (the back side of the

Hill). This was delightful, and the work was absorbing. This was

at the time, and in retrospect, a very happy year.

In 1948, I took a teaching position (assistant professor) in the
Department of Anatomy at Hopkins. I enjoyed the teaching —
especially the student contacts — and was able to do some research,
but, nevertheless, decided to go back to clinical work. The next
four years were at the U.S. Public Health Service Hospital in Balti-
more, one year as a surgical fellow, and three years as a surgical
resident. These were very full years. During this time, I was
divorced, remarried and started a family. Surgical research, also,
was productive. From Baltimore, we moved to Washington, and
I worked at the National Heart Institute until March, 1954.

I was not happy at the Heart Institute, and left for the job of chief
of surgery in a small clinic in Knoxville, Tennessee. During the
ten years I was in Knoxville, I formed a generally poor opinion of
the physician’s ability to solve the problems of medical practice,
and I learned more than I wanted to know about politics. It was
my good fortune, in Knoxville, to have available a research labora-
tory in the East Tennessee Tuberculosis Hospital, and I divided
my time between this and the practice of medicine. In 1961 I
became acquainted with Dr. Pierre Galletti in the Department of
Physiology at Emory University in Atlanta, and we began to
collaborate in the development and exploitation of the artificial

membrane lung. ©

After two years as a consultant and frequent visitor, I joined
the Emory faculty in July, 1964. I expect that my work will be
confined, primarily, to research in extracorporeal circulation, arti-
ficial organs and refrigeration. There will be some teaching, but
only occasional clinical work — and that directly related to research.
I am looking forward to at least the next twenty years in the sine
or similar jobs.

We always take at least three wecks’ vacation as a family at
Hancock Point, Maine. Here I get reacquainted with my chik Iren,
and dabble a little bit in the previous hobbies of photography and
woodworking. I would like to have more time to enjoy life (lamily,
travel), but certainly, to date, the major source of satisfacnon has

been in work.

[ 983 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

t+ ROBERT KNIGHT PEIRCE

 

Born: Sept. 1, 1917, Topsfield, Mass. parents: Thomas Wentworth Peirce, ’oo,
Gabrielle Dexter.

PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938.

MarrieD: Mildred Shillito Maxwell, March 1, 1944, Cincinnati, Ohio. CHILDREN:
Mildred Shillito, May 14, 1946; Robert Knight, Jr., July 25, 1949; Frederick
Cooke, April 14, 1954.

pizp: Aug. 12, 1964, Boston, Mass.

wwow: Mrs. Robert K. Peirce, 26 Garden St., Topsfield, Mass.

AFTER two years as a photographic technician in the radiation
laboratory at General Electric Company, River Works, in Lynn,
Massachusetts, Peirce enrolled in a Civilian Pilot Training Program
and then served as a pilot and lieutenant in the Army Air Forces,
with military duty in southeastern United States. Released from
active duty in November, 1945, he became a civilian flight instructor
and airport operator. From 1947 to 1949, he was a security salesman
and then became associated with the New England Counsellor service
in Rowley, Massachusetts, as investment counsellor and economist.
At the time of our Twentieth Anniversary Report he was self-em-
ployed. He was survived by his wife and children.

[ 984 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SAMUEL FREEMAN PEIRCE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Beach Drive, Noroton, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Continental Can Co., 633 Third Ave., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.

MARRIED: Dilys Demorest, June 8, 1946. CHILDREN: Anne, July 14, 1950; Pamela,
June 2, 1956.

occupation: Product sales manager, Plastic Container Division, Continental Can
Company, manufacturers of containers and packaging materials.

MEMBER OF: Noroton Yacht Club; The Corinthians.

KNOWING that we have so many Classmates with illustrious
careers, interesting experiences and valued opinions, I feel most
inadequate in even attempting to write anything except this bricf
résumé of the last twenty-five years— but here goes and don’t
expect much.

My first job after college was with the Yale & Towne Manu-
facturing Company in Stamford, Connecticut. A year or so later
and I was in the Army where I spent the next four years.

Immediately after release from active duty, I was marricd and
returned to Yale & Towne where I stayed for the next two and one-
half years. In 1949, I joined Underwood Corporation where T had
a succession of sales and marketing positions of increasing interest
and responsibility. When Olivetti gained control of Underwood
I became involved in sales training and, following a delightful visit
in Italy to study their methods, became director of training for the
company. In 1961 I moved back into sales and marketing again
with Plax Corporation and am now with Continental Can Company.

So in the twenty-five years since 1940 I have been in three quite
different businesses — locks, business machines and packaging. |
have enjoyed each in turn and find my present business — packaging
— by far the most interesting.

[ 985 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

In looking back and trving to account for the last twenty-five
years, I find that I have spent twenty per cent of them in the
military service. After my undistinguished career in World War II,
I was called out of the Inactive Reserve in 1950 for Korean duty
and spent a cold, miserable winter in the Korean hills.

We have not been very adventurous as far as travel and living
are concerned. Except for military service haven’t lived outside
Connecticut and Massachusetts. Vacation trips have been few and
far between and although I do quite a bit of business traveling I]
plan to get there and back as fast as possible.

Mv chief avocation ts sailing and perhaps I spend too much time
at it with frostbite dinghies in the winter and a summer season
that extends from April to November. In addition to racing and
cruising my own small sloop I manage to make a lot of the longer
distance races as a lesser hand on larger boats.

I'd like to be able to say that I am in as good shape now as I was
twenty-five years ago but it is just not so, Weight and waistline
are a problem and that sprint to the train (my only regularly
scheduled exercise) leaves me completely winded.

In short the years since 1940 have been rewarding and enjoyable
and it is a shock to realize so much time has gone by so rapidly.

WILLIAM FENDALL PENNEBAKER

    

HOME ADDRESS: 2013 Shell, Midland, Texas.

OFFICE AbpRESS: % Stubbeman, McRae, Sealy & Laughlin, P.O. Box 670, Midland,
Texas.

PREPARED AT: Isidore Newman School, New Orleans, La.; Northwood School,
Lake Placid, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; LL.B. (Yale Univ.),
1947.

[ 986 |

___]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marriep: Elizabeth Whiting, Feb. 7, 1948. CHILDREN: James Whiting, March 2,
1950; Ward Graham, Feb. 3, 1953; Mary, May 24, 1956.

occupation: Lawyer; partner, Stubbeman, McRae, Sealy & Laughlin.

OFFICES HELD: President, Midland County Bar Association, 1962-63, director,
1950-51, since 1963, president of board, 1963-64, Midland Community
Theatre, Inc.; Boy Scout Leader, 1961-64; currently, member, Citizens Ad-
visory Board, Midland Public Library; producer of melodramas by Mid-
land Summer Mummers, 1959-61.

MEMBER OF: Midland Racquet Club; Midland Club; Midland and Texas Bar

Associations.

AT graduation in 1940 I was unemployed but fortunately admitted

to Yale Law School and hoped that the study of law might lead to

gainful employment and a meaningful future. Although I was one

of ten Harvard classmates exposed to the New Haven branch of

legal studies, tragedies of war, transfers and lack of interest took

their toll, and I believe that I am the only member of the Class of
"40 to receive a Yale degree in law.

My World War II years were exciting and active ones, high-
lighted with a series of challenging assignments in Army Air Force
Heavy Bombardment Units.

After graduation from law school in February of 1947, I joined
the Midland, Texas, legal staff of Shell Oil Company, thinking that
my stay in Midland would be of short duration. A year Jater I
introduced my bride, Elizabeth Whiting, to Texas. We are devoted
residents of Midland and have become permanent fixtures here since
I joined the city’s largest law firm (now twenty-four lawyers) in
1951.

Midland is a lively and fascinating community. Since 1947 it has
grown from a town of perhaps 13,000 to almost 70,000 residents,
with the highest percentage of college and graduate degrecs per
capita in the nation. Our Bar Association has a roster of more than
200 lawyers. The population is represented by a cross section of
people from many places, with native Texans outnumbered and a
native-born Midlander a rare creature indeed.

Elizabeth and I share a common interest in our children and in
our Community Theatre organization. Our two boys, James and
Ward, would like to follow their father’s footsteps to Harvard,
but are keenly aware of the admissions problem. At this stage of
her life my daughter Mary wants only to be a mother when she
grows up — not a nurse or teacher or an airline hostess, T will give
her a few more years to think about her choice of college.

Midland’s Community Theatre is unique. A large statl, including

[ 987 ]

|

 

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940 J

three full-time directors, will oversee at least fifteen full-length
productions in 1965. This week, as I respond to Peter Pratt’s urgings
to send in my Class Report, our theatre group will conclude fourteen
performances of “No Time for Sergeants,” attended by 6,500 per-
sons. Two years ago Elizabeth received much fame, but no fortune,

as “Auntie Mame” in a record-smashing run of our production of
the play of that name.

ncgsntetsins erin nT SETS

 

;

Our Community Theatre is currently considering plans to enlarge :

its quarter-of-a-million-dollar plant, which is debt free. Our formula bi
for success? We are many miles from Broadway and have talent
to produce and the captive audiences to enjoy good theatre, and we
are far from water, snow, mountains and many distractions of metro-
politan life which would afford other diversions for our idle time.
The political climate in West Texas is not unlike that of Arizona,
and I have been fascinated by the unwillingness of the average voter
in this area to recognize the fact that our social, economic and
political problems today are different from those of a generation
ago and that the role of government in dealing with those problems
is an active one and will continue to be an active one. I am hopeful
that Bill Scranton, a schoolmate at Yale Law School, will have the

opportunity to guide our national destinies after the next presidential
election.

meas eshaag Sear tare aS

rw pene me eaaapsieac ate RT
gaa bay 1p Gene ES
paren tinte MTME

asta

saga hana gaunt eat

ENRICO ANTHONY PEPE ;

 

HOME AND OFFICE AppRESS: 26 Page Rd., Newtonville, Mass.
PREPARED AT: East Boston High School, East Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1940; M.v., cum laude

1943.
margiED: Holly Bury, Oct. 28, 1950. CHILD: James Charles,

Aug. 22, 1953.
[ 988 ]

erestenestrnomntmeinh

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
OCCUPATION: Surgery.
OFFICES HELD: Staff surgeon, Newton-Wellesley Hospital, Chelsea Memorial

Hospital.
MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; American College of Surgeons,

American Board of Surgery; Massachusetts Medical Society, Alpha Omega
Alpha.
TWENTY-FIVE years! And it seems to be just commencing. One
postponement after another can cover a lot of ground.

Actually, a reasonably busy career in medicine has taken pre-
cedence over matters philosophic, social, economic, religious and
civic. Four years at medical school, two in the Army, five years of
training in surgery and a couple to get started in practice “chewed
up more than half the twenty-five years.

I did manage to get married, finally, thank goodness and thank
Holly. One son, Jimmy, gives me an excuse to go to football games
and cheer as I never did in college.

After twenty-five years the spirit is willing to commence again.
Recently, inspired by a short bout of precordial chest pain, I have
lost thirty-five pounds of the forty I had gained. I bicycle to work
and I am winning back some of the dollar bets I used to lose at golf.
The new approach feels much better. Bring on the next twenty-

five!

JOHN CARGIL PERHAM

 

HOME AppreEss: 45 Hemlock Drive, Stamford, Conn, o6go2.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Barron’s Weckly, 50 Broadway, New York, N.¥. toooy.
PREPARED AT: Crosby High School, Waterbury, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., Ct latide, ty4go, AM. togt

MARRIED: Mary Hull, June 20, 1942.
CCUPATION: Journalism; assistant managing editor, Barron's Weekly,

[ 989 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

IT was H. M. Pulham, Esq., wasn’t it—or at least one of J. P.
Marquand’s Harvard-educated heroes — who was catapulted into a
review of his whole life when a z5th anniversary questionnaire
arrived from Cambridge? I seem to have fallen into a similar rev-
erie, on a somewhat less exalted scale, which has rendered me unfit
for any other duty for several days. Well, something always does.

After a quarter century in the outside world, I seem to have no
message of commanding significance for either the staunch men of
’go or for posterity. My principal accomplishment over the years
has been survival, and some might question how great a triumph
that was. Me, I think it was remarkable.

Anyway, since I last rode the cars of the Metropolitan ‘Transit
Authority, lost my voice at the Stadium or sweated out a History 32
exam, I have acquired: a wife; a house; a mortgage; a job; the
status of a veteran commuter on the moribund New Haven (some
days 'm a moribund commuter on the veteran New Haven); a
thatch of gray hair; enough weight to add to my dignity and sub-
tract from my life expectancy; several thick layers of rust on what
was once a passable chess game; a modest collection of pornography;
a growing wanderlust, which I don’t have time, money or energy
enough to satisfy; an impressive library of books I’m going to read
one of these days; a collection of Dixieland records that excite me,
if no one else; a physician who prescribes alcohol for most of the ills
of the flesh; a dentist who advises rinsing the mouth regularly with
martinis; a friendly mortician who waits expectantly in the wings;
an increasingly confused view of the world; a persistent respect for
Fair Harvard, still a proud beacon in the wilderness; a firm con-
viction that things aren’t what they used to be—— and never were,
and a chronic fatigue. Oh, and hay fever and insomnia.

I guess that’s about it. As for my career, so-called, I have trod a
thorny path from a now-defunct newspaper in my home town of
Waterbury, Connecticut, to a nine-year stretch with the 200-year-
old, and fortunately thriving, Hartford Courant, to Barron’s (the
Dow-Jones business and financial weekly: end of commercial),
where I have plied the trades of reporter, researcher, rewrite man,
copy editor, associate editor and assistant managing editor. (Bar-
ron’s for some fifteen years has done without a managing editor,
and even some of our kindest critics might add that certain issues
look like it.) My job, in essence, is to keep the wheels turning. And
I can only add that there are wheels within wheels.

As for the future, I propose to wait and see, After all, we must

[ 990 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

hold some of our fire for the soth Anniversary Report — I'm going
to start my research for it right now. Good cheer to you all.

HERBERT ASA PERKINS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 214 E. Charleston Rd., Palo Alto, Calif.

OFFICE ADpREss: Irwin Memorial Blood Bank of the San Francisco Medical So-
ciety, 270 Masonic Ave., San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Brockton High School, Brockton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cuz laude, 1940; M.D., stmrma cum
laude (Tufts Coll.), 1943.

MARRIED: Frances Snyder, Sept. 2, 1942. CHILDREN: Susan, June 29, 1945; Deb-
orah, May 18, 1948; Dale, April 13, 1950; Karen, July 13, 1954; Erin, March
30, 1958. -

occupation: Physician; director of research, Irwin Memorial Blood Bank of
the San Francisco Medical Society, San Francisco; assistant clinical pro-
fessor of medicine, University of California School of Medicine, San
Francisco.

OFFICES HELD: Editor, Book Reviews and Abstracts Section of Transfusion, of -
ficial journal of the American Association of Blood Banks, since 196v, chair«
man, board of directors, Peninsula School, Menlo Park, Calif., 1964-65.

MEMBER OF: Sigma Xi; Alpha Omega Alpha; Society for Experimental Biology
and Medicine; Western Society for Clinical Research, American Fed-
eration for Clinical Research; American Society for Hematology; Amer-
ican Association of Blood Banks; International Society of Blood Trans-
fusion.

PUBLICATIONS: Author of over forty scientific articles on the hematologic cftfeces
of open heart surgery, blood preservation, blood coagulation and isn
munohematology.

LOOKING back at the last quarter of a century I find that I have
not accomplished everything I would like to have done, but much
has happened which I could not have predicted in my wildest dreamy.

[991 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

My travels began at the insistence of the Army of the United
States in World War Il. They led me to New Caledonia, to the
Philippines, and ultimately to two years with the occupation forces
in Japan. Our affection for Japan persisted, and four years ago we
_ took advantage of a medical meeting in Tokyo to renew our acquaint-

ance for a period of three weeks. Two years later we had our
chance to see Mexico City. We haven’t succeeded in getting to
Europe, but we'll make it yet. Meanwhile the San Francisco Bay
area has been our home for the last thirteen years, and we love it.

The “we,” of course, refers to my family. My proudest achieve-
ment is that I’m still married to and still in love with the girl I took
to the Senior Spread; and our five daughters provide us with an end-
less source of pride and delight (and the usual headaches).

My professional career has been characterized by a certain amount
of serendipity. After four years at Tufts Medical, three years in the
Army and four years’ training in internal medicine, | headed for the
west coast. My co-workers in the hospital had been particularly
interested in hematology, and I found that my extra experience in
this field made me the local expert wherever I went. I joined the
hematology unit at Stanford Medical School, first as clinical in-
structor, then as assistant clinical professor of medicine. I was there
on the spot when the first fumbling attempts to perform open heart
surgery in dogs were stymied by intractable postoperative bleeding.
They asked my help, and so my research career began on a part-
time basis. Over the next three years we systematically established
the various mechanisms by which abnormal bleeding could be in-
duced as blood was circulated through an artificial heart-lung
machine.

When operations on humans had become so successful that my
routine services were no longer necessary, I received an invitation to
join the hematology unit at Washington University School of
Medicine in St. Louis. But California had worked its magic, and the
Midwest was not for us. We returned to San Francisco just as the
community blood bank was looking for a director of research.
The job was made for me, and I was made for it. I’ve spent five very
happy years as director of research of the Irwin Memorial Blood
Bank of the San Francisco Medical Society. I’ve continued to work
on the hematologic complications of open heart surgery, blood
preservation and blood coagulation. Our blood bank acts as a
referral center for problems from all over northern California. A
third of my time is spent teaching, partly at the blood bank, and

L992]

aeRO
PES

RNS reer
ee

_____ |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

partly at the University of California School of Medicine. 1 spend
a large part of my time at the medical center, teaching, supervising
the care of patients, and acting as a consultant. Blood coagulation
problems are my particular province.

I remain an optimist. Life has been good to me, and I am hope-
ful it will be equally good to my children. I am aghast at tines at
the complexity of the world for which they are preparing them-
selves, and at the pressures the schools place on them to master the
vast ocean of facts which appear to be the educators’ idea of cduca-
tion. I feel strongly that each individual should have the right to be
himself, and I have a war to the death with those who want to cram
everyone into the same mold.

JOHN ALLEN PERKINS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 203 Highland St., Dedham, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Palmer, Dodge, Gardner & Bradford, 53 State St. Boston oa
Mass.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Middletown, R.1.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., crt latideé, 1940; LL.B. 1043.

MarRiED: Lydia Bullard Cobb, Sept. 9, 1944. CHILDREN: John Allen, Jr. March
28, 1946; Susan Wheelwright, Dec. 13, 1948; Robert Cobb, April im, tusa,
William Bartlett, April 26, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: James Wood Perkins, ’45, LL.B., “48.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Committee to revise Town of Dedham By-lawy ic
60; member, since 1959, chairman, since 1963, Dedham School Commattee,
member, Committee to advise Massachusetts Commusioner of Adiminisera:
tion on regulations by state agencies, since 1943, member, Advisory Com:
mittee, Massachusetts Council for Public Schools, since 194), member,
Greater Boston Advisory Board, Salvation Army, since 1960,

MEMBER OF: American, Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associations, Cricung

[993 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Club of America; New Bedford Yacht Club; Harvard Travellers Club:
Dedham Choral Society; Dedham Historical Society; City Club Corpora.
tion of Boston, Dedham Country and Polo Club.

pusLications: “Protection of Labor Union Funds by Members’ Representative
Suits: Massachusetts Practice,” January, 1947, “Basic Labor Law Issues
Under the Taft-Hartley Act,” November, 1947, Boston University Law
Review; “A New Look at Length of Service Salary Schedules,” June, 1961,
American School Board Journal, “A Suggested Statute Concerning Gifts
to Heirs,” September, 1963, Massachusetts Law Quarterly; “Cruising the
One Designs,” November, 1964, One-Design Yachtsman.

L USED to think the Twenty-fifth Class Report was an occasion for
summing up one’s life. But even now that the time is here, I do not
feel old enough or anywhere near ready to write a twenty-fifth
year “Class Life.” Mid-term finds most of us, I think, still adding
new and absorbing projects and ambitions to our life agenda.

Even before 1940 it was my purpose to become a lawyer, and this
choice I have never regretted. 1 completed law school in February,
1943, with about fifty others of the lame, halt and blind, making up
the wartime law school student body. After two years trying to
help eight lawyers to do the work of sixteen in private law practice
in Boston I moved to an assignment on the legal staff of the War
Production Board and the interesting life of Washington through
V-E Day and V-J Day. In 1946 1 returned to the firm with which
I have continued to practise ever since, becoming a partner in 1950.

In 1944 I married Lydia Cobb who was then embarked on a short-
lived career as an occupational therapist trying to help wounded
servicemen restore the use of injured hands, arms, feet and legs.
She was persuaded to leave Halloran General Hospital in Framing-
ham, Massachusetts, and we found a place to live in Natick, from
which each of us could commute in opposite directions. Since soon
after our return from Washington in 1946 we have lived in Dedham.

Education, as related to our four children, is a part of our daily
life, and education, as a local, state and national concern, has con-
sumed much of the time and thought in the public sector of my life.
I have come to know very well the frustrations and not inconsider-
able satisfactions of working on a local school committee. The kind
of society we believe in and strive to realize in America rests today
on the success of our free public school system. I believe there is no
greater opportunity for service in the power of a city or town to
confer than election to a local school committee. But there is a time

for getting on and a time for getting off, and my time for getting
off has come.

1 994 |

%
i
oy
A

 

REA E
anon stbpacersoscnshanabase in ibagssnke ee

 

  

uhegneaia chee

| |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

For me one of the great experiences at Harvard was the Glee Club.
To sit on the orchestra side of Koussevitzky through the Beethoven
“Ninth Symphony” and be an active participant was a thrill T shall
never forget. I was no good, but I loved the Glee Club and con-
tinued to sing with it even in law school. The need to perform music
in some way, however humble, is not satisfied by listening. Although
I have been largely inactive for a couple of years, I was one of the
founding members and have greatly enjoyed singing in our own
Dedham Choral Society. I read the Glee Club News and will not try
to conceal my envy of the present generation of Glee Clubbers who
had the great experience of the world tour.

My social, political or religious convictions? Social — Every per-
son should be respected and accepted everywhere as a person, with-
out regard to race or creed, social background or economic status,
What counts in a person is the quality of his life and character.
Political —I thought I was a Republican and a conservative, but if
some of Senator Goldwater’s delineations of the terms prevail, I must
be neither. I hope to continue to be both. Religious — An Fpisco-
palian by practice (or, more accurately, irregular attendance), a

Unitarian by belief and a Quaker in spirit.

MAHLON FAY PERKINS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: Cognewaugh Rd., Cos Cob, Conn. 06807.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Donovan, Leisure, Newton & Irvine, 2 Wall Se, New York,
N.Y. rooos.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exerer, NE.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1936-1940. DEGREES! A.By 19403 LL.B, Cerne Latade, tugen

MARRIED: Lovel Price, June to, 1950. cHiLpREN: Arthur Mahlon, Now, pa tude.
Samuel Price, Nov. 17, 1953; Louis Edward, July 27, 1994,

[ 995 ]

_

 

8
‘
&
z

ag Bile

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

occupation: Lawyer; partner in Donovan, Leisure, Newton & Irvine.

oFFices HELD: Member, executive committee, Greenwich Community Chest
and Council, 1957-59; member, board of governors, Mianus Valley Asso-
ciation, 1963-64.

MEMBER OF: American and New York State Bar Associations; Association of
the Bar of the City of New York; Down Town Association; Metropolitan
Club, Washington, D.C.; Innis Arden Golf Club, Stanwich Club; Amer-
ican Go Association; New York Go Club.

puBLicaTions: Contributions to Harvard Law Review while an editor.

eeugroympetetsth"
oor Ne IEE ATE SENS AN
CEE ieee cy

aye Re Zh) te

 

FOR about a year I worked as a volunteer for the Committee on
Housing of the New York Community Service Society. We
checked complaints, reported violations of the Multiple Dwelling 3
Law, and conducted surveys — well-meant but perhaps futile sorties %
against the rats and roaches and all the dingy decrepitude of the
tenements. In the Village, a cousin who danced with Hanya Holm
introduced me to the careless freedom of Bohemia. 4
Upon enrollment in the New York School of Social Work, I was 4
sent to Greenwich, Connecticut, for field work with the Green-
wich Center for Child and Family Service, a pioneering agency
headed by Jean Gregory Richmond. I recall the almost dire con-
sequences of ordering condensed instead of evaporated milk for the
formula of a baby whose foster home placement I was supervising.
The Center nevertheless took me on as a caseworker before I had
completed my schooling. Soon afterwards the Army claimed me
as Serial Number 32402185. .
Service tedium was eventually relieved by transfer to the O.S.5.
which put me through all the mystifications of a fraternal order and
instructed me in limpets and Bangalore torpedoes and how to shape
plastic charges. Our little band of demolitionists was dispatched by
air to Detachment 202 in Kunming, where nobody had heard of us.
Instead of being assigned to blow bridges, we made up the Special
Operations HQ that assigned later arrivals to such chores, At the end
of the war, | was put on team Magpie, which dropped on Lan-
vien-ch’ang airfield outside Peking with the mission of succoring
POWs. Among others, we came across four Doolittle fliers who
were in pretty bad shape. Peking in the weeks that followed was a
ball.
After the war I wound up at Harvard Law, where I took my
degree in February, 1949. I went to work for my present law firm
and have remained there ever since except for an interlude with the
CLA. during the Korean War. The first year took me to Hong
Kong and London in a controversy over some seventy airplanes that

[ 996 J

ni
ey
‘

Rite

Rea

sis Sophy aia as

eee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

had been immobilized on Kai Tak Airfield by defecting employees
of the Chinese Nationalist airlines. Flying to Formosa with Chen-
nault, getting stuck on New Year’s Eve on Hainan Island at an old
Japanese bomber strip, brushes with British immigration — nothing
in my later practice, though it has been varied and absorbing, has
supplied quite so much romance. Moreover, it was in Hong Kong
that I proposed and was accepted by cablegram.

There has been other foreign travel, to British Guiana, Tokvo,
Zurich, but for the most part ’m happy to be here at home, gazing
out at dogwood, ash, and pepperidge through window walls de-
signed by John Johansen (’39). The woods are apt for contempla-
tion, in flower, leaf, or twig, and equally apt for exercise of axe and
saw and shears. A hobby or an enchantment? Then tennis and the
piano, both unconquerable, and books and records go unread and un-
played, and my favorite go-board gathers dust.

My convictions are summed up in one: The essential humanity of
human beings, one and all. I keep forgetting it and keep trying to
recall it. I would err on the side of joy and sympathy, rather than
rectitude.

ROBERT FORBES PERKINS

 

HOME appress: Manchester-by-the-Sea, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State Street Bank & Trust Co., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940.

MarrieD: Florence B. Cushing, Nov. 3, 1942, CHILDREN: Evelyn MB, March 14,
1944; Isabel C., April 24, 1945; Robert Forbes, Jr. April tg, toqg, Florence
B., March 17, 1951; Thomas Handasyd, May 11, 1963.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Bowditch Perkins, 16 (deceased).

[ 997 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

OCCUPATION: Senior vice-president, State Street Bank & Trust Company; gen-
eral loaning and in charge of national accounts group; member, senior loan

orrices HELD: US. Naval Reserve, 1940-46 — apprentice seaman to lieutenant
commander, USS Pennsylvania, 1940-42, flight training, 1942-43, USNAS,
Daytona Beach, 1943, CASU 24, 1944, USS Ticonderoga, 1944-45; Town
Meeting member, Needham, Mass., 1950-57; member, Armed Forces Ad-
visory Committee for the northeast area of the United States, 1960-62;
member and secretary, Industrial Development Commission, Manchester,
since 1963; member, Credit Policy Committee, Massachusetts Bankers As-
sociation, 1955-56; representative, Robert Morris Association, 1950-54;
director, Gauley Coal Land Company, since igs0; incorporator, Warren
Institution for Savings, Boston, since 1953; trustee, Provident Institution
for Savings, Boston, since 1954; director, Judson L. Thomson Manufac-
turing Company, 1958-61, New Hampshire Ball Bearings, Inc., since 1960,
Lincoln Land Company, since 1962, Massachusetts Society for the Pre-
vention of Cruelty to Children, since 1949; trustee, 1953, treasurer, 1953-60,
Norfolk House Centre; director and treasurer, Boston Metropolitan Chap-
ter, American National Red Cross, since 1954; trustee, Rogerson House,
since 1961, Sailor's Snug Harbor, since 1960, Beverly Hospital, since 1963,
member, Committee to nominate candidates for Overseers, directors of
the Alumni Association and members of the Harvard Fund Council, 1953-
54; member, Harvard Fund Council, 1956-59; trustee and president of
Graduates’ Council, Milton Academy, 1959-61; trustee, The Shipley
School, 1961-64.

MEMBER OF: Association of Reserve City Bankers; Boston Chamber of Com-
merce; City Club Corporation; Down Town Club (vice-president and
board of governors, since 1958); Essex County Club; Harvard Club of
New York; India Wharf Rats; Manchester Yacht Club (board of gov-
ernors, 1958-60); Somerset Club (board of governors and treasurer, 1950-
62); Wardroom Club (vice-president and president, 1947-52); Captain
Robert Bennett Forbes House (trustee, since 1964); Chaverham Society;
Harvard Varsity Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Wool topmaking and loans to the wool topmakers,” thesis, 1953-

CLASS LIFE: Life since graduation — “narrative style’ —

1940 April — University Hall interview produced $25.00 per week
job as trainee at National City Bank of New York. July — Active
duty as apprentice seaman, USNR, at $21.00 per month.

1946 January —Released from active duty as lieutenant com-
mander, USNR (A3D-V.G.)* and got one year’s pay in arrears
because records had been lost, sunk or burned. (*A3D = combat
pilot, also qualified as deck watch officer, V.G.= volunteer for gen-
eral service.) February — Turned down National City Bank job at

double the pay and took job at Second National Bank of Boston at
almost as much.

1953 June — Finished seven years of night schools topped off by
[998 |

 

peers exon genssemrnenoiee S ~

eam tein ONES AMS ie ee

ce rae bln eat ep TF

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

graduating, all in white, from the Graduate School of Banking at
Rutgers University and got my thesis in the library (!).

1963 December — Promoted to senior vice-president at Stare
Street Bank & Trust Company (Boston), having survived two
mergers in reasonably good health.

SPARE TIME spent trying to keep up with wife and children
playing tennis, fly fishing, skiing, and having them try to keep up
with me aboard our 1960 Concordia Goldeneye, which has a first
mate and chefess par excellence.

CHILDREN like terrible music and TV, have wonderful friends,
and think ours are old-fashioned, but they do read books and even
a newspaper now and then.

CONVINCED Harvard may be the ideal college or university,
but I hope it never gets out of reach for just good, qualified citizen
types.

RECONCILING to always being one of a minority with some
amazement because I believe in (believe it or not) hard work,
savings, contributing “pro bono publico” and dollars, doing things
we (I) like as well as doing things I (we) should.

JACK MARVIN PERLMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Farragut Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 11 E, 44th St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, Riverdale, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. magna Cue lanide, tage, FEB. Boat
MARRIED: Marilyn Cohen, June 20, 1948. CHILDREN: Meg, Jan. i sysn, Addaen
March 18, 1951; Noah, May 27, 1953; Beth, Nov. §, 1955.

OccUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: American Vice-consul, 1944-46; legislative assistant to preadent,
New York City Council, tg51-53; counsel, Young Men's Board of Teate.

[ 999 ]

La

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

1954, Uptown Chamber of Commerce, 1955~64; director, La Guardia
House, 1964; secretary, Labor Law Committee, New York City Bar As-
sociation, 1954-56, member, City Board of New York Chapter, Americans
for Democratic Action, 1952-54.

‘MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Citizens Housing and Planning
Council of New York.

pustications: “Little Norris-LaGuardia Act and the New York Courts,” New
York University Law Review, April, 1950; articles in the Standard Maga-
zine on Israeli Constitution, Echics of Labor Relations, and Spy Hunting,
(with my wife), 1949-50; book reviews in The Reconstructionist, 1952,
19553 article on condominium in Housing The Cooperative Way, 1964.

 

Bi
is
EB
a
c
:

rors

NOW twenty-five years later I find it difficult to answer the
question: am I still under the influence of Harvard? Certainly
not in terms of specific knowledge because most of the data I
memorized so carefully has just about faded away. Certainly not in
terms of long-lasting friendships because time and distance have
taken their toll. But in a deeper sense the influence is still there.
The qualities I still most prize in people were an integral part of the
college spirit: independence in judgment without fear of dissent-
ing, broadness of interests in an age of overspecialization and a
strong social conscience. These have remained my ideals, however
much I have faltered in achieving them. They were instilled in
me, or at least reinforced in me, at Harvard.

Since college my home base has been the practice of the law. I
left it twice. Once in the mid ’4o’s to join the diplomatic service
and serve successively as a vice-consul stationed at Brazzaville, the
capital of what was then called French Equatorial Africa, and as
assistant to the minister at our Legation in Dublin, Ireland. A
second time in the early ’s50’s when the glamour of the Kefauver
Investigation of Interstate Crime propelled Rudolph Halley into the
seat of president of the New York City Council and I was selected as
his legislative assistant at Cicy Hall. Each time I returned to the law,
maybe better equipped, certainly with a broader perspective.

In recent years my practice has focused in two disparate fields —
the entertainment industry and middle income housing. If I were
honest I would probably admit that the former is attractive because
I enjoy the people involved, the latter because it satisfied my need to
make a social contribution. Beyond that I have tried to keep my
finger in other aspects of the law, at least to prove that being a
lawyer is not what you know but how you think.

That brings me to my wife. Where Harvard failed, she succeeded,
or at least tried. She found me with serious weaknesses — a certain

[ 1000 ]

—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

intellectual laziness, a lack of self-confidence despite a preoccupa-
tion with self, and a cultural poverty in the areas of art and dance.
She has now devoted sixteen years to analyzing and overcoming
those deficiencies. In between she has had time to be an under-
standing mother and, in recent years, a painter of growing promise.

These last fifteen years have been child-oriented. Four young,
very vital children of vastly dissimilar temperaments can be ex-
plosive but quite rewarding. They have taught us how much more
intensive is the educational process today. We have traveled to
many lands with them and gained from their reactions to people and
places. Meg is the sparkling archaeologist, Adam the wit and
politician, Noah has that intellectual chip on his shoulder and Beth
is a constant theatrical performance. Never a dull moment.

JOSEPH HARTSHORN PERRY, III

 

HOME ADDRESS: 259 Lewiston Rd., Grosse Pointe Farms 36, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2141 E. Jefferson Ave., Detroit 7, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.D. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
1944.

Marriep: Marian Elizabeth Goodale, Aug. 4, 1945. CHILDREN: Joseph Hartshorn,
4th, Dec. 7, 1951; Charles G., Jan. 20, 1954.

occupaTION: Physician — internist; chief of staff, Alexander Blain Hospreal
and Clinic, Detroit.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant instructor in medicine, Wayne State University.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Internal Medicine (diplomate, since 1934),
Wayne County Medical Society, Detroit Boat Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Treatment of Fulminating Ulcerative Colitis.” with Dr, Charles
H. Brown, Cleveland Clinic Quarterly, 1948, “Changes in Serum Inorganic
Phosphorus in Carbohydrate Metabolism,” with Dr. Robert O. Schnenter,
Diabetes, 1956.

[ roo1 ]

|

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

SINCE leaving Harvard, attended School of Medicine, University
of Pennsylvania, graduating with M.D. degree in 1944. Interned at
Bryn Mawr Hospital, 1944-45. Served in U.S. Army as medical
officer at St. Cloud, Minnesota, 1946-47. Postgraduate training:
fellowship in internal medicine, Cleveland Clinic, 1947-50; practice
of internal medicine, York, Pennsylvania, 1950 to 1953. Since then

have been in practice in Detroit and am now chief of staff, Alexander;
Blain Hospital and Clinic.

EDWIN WILLSON PETERSON | .

 

HOME Apress: 449 S. Poplar Way, Denver, Colo.

OFFICE apprEss: 1765 Sherman St., Denver, Colo. 80203.

PREPARED AT: Lower Merion Senior High School, Ardmore, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: SB. 1940, M.D., cum laude, 1943.

MarrieD: Gertrude Alice Jones, Sept. 23, 1944. CHILDREN: Edwin Willson, Jrs
Aug. 28, 1945; Eric Jones, Dec. 13, 1947; Kristina, Jan. 7, 1949.

occupation: Physician; specialist in internal medicine.

oFFices HELD: Assistant chief of medicine, West Roxbury (Mass.), Veterans
Administration Hospital, 1950; instructor in medicine, Tufts Medical
School, 1950.

MEMEER OF: Denver Medical Society; American Medical Association, American
Society of Internal Medicine, Mount Vernon Country Club.

pusLications: “Endocarditis Due to Hemophilus influenzae,” American Jour-
nal of Medicine, August, 1949; “Pulmonary Adenomatosis,” New England
Journal of Medicine, March, 1951; “The Treatment of Idiopathic Hemo-
chromatosis by Repeated Phlebotomy,” Annals of Internal Medicine, May,

1953.
LOOKING back confidently on twenty-five years, and hesitatingly
forward to the next twenty-five, I can see that my fears and as-

pirations have really changed very little. At least, neither my deep
fears nor great aspirations have transpired,

[ 1002 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Following graduation, I escaped the plunge into the cold waters
of life by attending Harvard Medical School and serving an intern.
ship at Massachusetts General Hospital. After this, there was no
escaping the reality of war and service to one’s country. Although
assured that because of “bad eyes” I would be kept on limited duty,
I next found myself roaming the beaches of the South Pacific, Philip.
pines and Okinawa, Luckily, I had taken a wonderful wife prior
to this sojourn and eventually managed to make my weary way
home, still intact, to find my first-born already a lusty eighteen
months of age.

Then followed more medical training in the specialty of internal

medicine at Massachusetts General and West Roxbury Vetcrans
Administration Hospitals, during which time our other two children
joined the tribe. We enjoyed this return to New England im-
mensely and found it difficult, at the time, to make the decision to
move to Denver, Colorado, to take up the private practice of
medicine. However, we have learned to love the mountains, the
camping, the hunting, the skiing, the fishing, and have even pur-
chased a jeep to further these pleasures. Our chief loss in this
area is the nearness of the beaches and waters of the broad Atlantic,
on which we and our old friends spent so many happy hours.

The intervening years have been spent building up a medical
practice, watching our children grow to maturity, losing a few
hairs and teeth, trying to keep the weight down, aspiring to a
mountain cabin, enjoying the company of old classmates traveling

cross-country, and eventually completing plans to join all in Cam-
bridge for our gala Twenty-fifth.

[ 1003 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

HAROLD PETLUCK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 59 Lynnwood Drive, Longmeadow, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Chicopee High School, Chicopee, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938.

MARRIED: Faye Petluck. CHILDREN: Steven, 1947; Shelley, 1950.
occuPAaTION: Mercantile business,

I WAS inducted into the Army in July, 1941, and served in the
Army Medical Corps at Camp Pickett in Virginia until December,
i941, at which time I was sent to Recife, Brazil, as a hospital ad-
ministrative clerk. I spent the next three years in various parts of
Brazil, Belem, Rio, etc., doing the same type of work, and in
January, 1945, was sent back to the United States. I was dis-
charged in July, 1945, and joined Petluck, Inc., our family-owned
men’s and women’s specialty store. In 1947, we expanded into an
adjoining store and five years later into another. Within the next
three months, we will be moving our entire operation into an estab-
lished shopping center where we have designed a beautiful modern
store four times our present size.

I have a son, Steven, aged seventeen, who is attending Laurelcrest
Preparatory School for Boys in Bristol, Connecticut, as a senior. My
daughter Shelley is fourteen and is a sophomore at Longmeadow
High School. My wife Faye and I have just celebrated our twenty-
third wedding anniversary.

[ 1004 ]

—_—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ LEWIS RANDOLF PEYTON

 

BORN: Dec. 13, 1917, Duluth, Minn. parents: Hamilton Howe Peyton, ‘07,
Olive Lewis,

PREPARED AT: Duluth Central High School, Duluth, Minn.

_ YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938.

pep: Aug. 27, 1962, Duluth, Minn.

LEWIS RANDOLF PEYTON spent two years with our Class

and has not been heard from since leaving college. He was survived

by his mother.

GEORGE STONE PHALEN

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 2 Crestmont Rd., Binghamton, N.Y.

[ 1005 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

RICHARD EDWARD PHEASANT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 123 Westbourne Rd., West Chester, Pa. 19380.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Aeroprojects, Inc., West Chester, Pa. 19380.
PREPARED AT: Winthrop High School, Winthrop, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, 1946-1947 (S). DEGREE: S.B., 1940(46),
MARRIED: Jean Klocksin, Feb. 10, 1945. CHILD: Jean, July 24, 1955.
HARVARD BROTHER: Alan Gale Pheasant, ’51.
occupation: Chemist, contract research and development.
OFFICES HELD: Secretary and treasurer, Research Institute for Medicine and

Chemistry, Cambridge, 1957-59, area director, Harvard Business School
Club of Philadelphia, 1964-65.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New Jersey; Harvard Business
School Club of Philadelphia; Harvard Advanced Management Associa-
tion, New York; American Chemical Society, American Association for

the Advancement of Science; American Institute of Aeronautics and As-
tronautics.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in technical publications, and reports issued by

government research agencies such as AEC, NASA, Air Force.

LEFT Harvard without a degree in late 1940, worked in a drug-
tore for a while, and in early 1941 found employment as a chemist
vith Schering Corporation in Bloomfield, New Jersey (then a
ibsidiary of the German Schering A.G.). Schering was seized by
re Alien Property Custodian in December, 1941, and I continued
“orking there ( a physical defect kept me from engaging in military
rvice) as a production and development chemist through the end
: the war, during which time I met and married my lovely wife.

In the summer of 1946, I returned to Harvard and completed my
‘gree requirements. In 1949 I moved into Schering’s new Quality
ntrol Department where I specialized in specifications and trouble-
noting. This led to a promotion to assistant to the vice-president
1953 with the responsibility of new product coordination. Mean-

[ 1006 J

pon 9 APO CLL LIE OY Ripe,
eae

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

while, Jean and I had bought our first house and were joined in it
in 1955 by Jeanie, our daughter. One of the first presents we bought
Jeanie was a Radcliffe piggy bank.

Back to Harvard for three months in 1957, attending the 31s
Advanced Management Program at the Business School. Then a
temporary assignment by Schering to assist in setting up the Re-
search Institute for Medicine and Chemistry in Cambridge, a re-
search center which “brought the mountain to Mohammed.”
During two years in the old stamping grounds, I was able to renew
acquaintance with many classmates, had Torby Macdonald as my
congressman, and, of course, Jack Kennedy as senator.

In 1959 I returned to Schering in its International Division. At the
end of 1960 I left Schering after an association of nearly twenty
years. In 1961 I joined Aeroprojects, Inc., a small firm engaged i in
research and development and located in the beautiful countryside
of Chester County, Pennsylvania. In my work with Acroprojccts
and, more recently, its subsidiary, Technidyne, Inc., I have found
myself immersed in problems of national defense, space travel. and
peaceful uses of nuclear energy, in both the technical and ad-
ministrative aspects. The untimely death of Jack Kennedy, whose
foresight in these areas was exceptional, has placed a further burden
on those concerned with our country’s leadership in defense and
aerospace technology.

Twenty-five years have brought, I hope, a degree of maturity
and, much too late, wisdom. They have also brought a modest
amount of material wealth and physical comfort which seemed to
increase in importance at first but are diminishing now. Changes in
life and customs are taking place at an increasingly faster rate, and
we find the human race struggling harder and harder to keep up with
the developments it has produced. I foresee a complete overhaul-
ing of human traditions, mores, and political and religious behefs
even before our Fiftieth Anniversary comes around.

[ 1007 }

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1 940

ELLIOTT HUNTER PHILLIPS

    

HOME ADDRESS: 193 Ridge Rd., Grosse Pointe Farms, Mich.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Hill, Lewis, Andrews, Adams, Goodrich & Power, 3250 Penob-
scot Bldg., Detroit, Mich. 48226.

PrePareD AT: Highland Park High School, Highland Park, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. CU laude, 1940; LL.B. 1943 (47).

MarRIED: Gail Carolyn Isbey, April 22, 1950, Detroit, Mich. CHILprEN: Elliott

Hunter, Jr., June 20, 1957; Alexandra Robertson, Dec. 26, 1960.

occupation: Lawyer; partner in law firm engaged in general practice.

IFFICES HELD: Director, secretary, since 1955, secretary-treasurer, since 1960,
Detroit & Canada Tunnel Corporation; trustee, 1952-63, president, 1961-62,
Church Youth Service; trustee, Detroit Orthopaedic Clinic, since 1957;
chairman of general solicitations (Detroit area), A Program For Harvard
College, 1957-59; regional vice-president and director, Associated Harvard
Clubs, 1958-64; assistant chancellor, Diocese (Episcopal) of Michigan, since
1959; chairman of Finance Committee, “Law Day — Detroit,” 1961; member,
Central Budget Committee, United Community Services of Metropolitan

Detroit, 196264; vestryman, Christ Episcopal Church, Grosse Pointe, Mich.
EMBER oF: American and Detroit Bar Associations; State Bar of Michigan;
Thomas M. Cooley Club; Newcomen Society; Detroit Institute of Arts
Founders Society; Detroit Historical Society; Historical Society of Mich-
igan; Harvard Club of Fastern Michigan (president 1955-56); Harvard
Club of New York; Country Club of Detroit; University Club, Detroit.

sLicaTions: “Doing Business in Michigan,” The Michigan C.P.A., May, 1956;

“The Allocation Formula Under the Michigan Annual Franchise Tax,”

Taxes, March, 1957; “Interesting and Unusual Tax Rulings and Decisions

in 1963,” The Michigan C.P.A., March-April, 1964.

TER three years of law school interrupted by four and a half
irs in the Navy, I returned to Detroit at the end of 1947 to
rin work with the law firm in which I became partner in 1953
| with which [ am still connected. I owe large debts to the law
pol and Navy years and it is probably unfair to dismiss them
h a sentence or two; but these were years of learning and

[ 1008 |

tear”

___!

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

maturing and I think of them principally as an extension of college
and not really a part of this report. After two years of practice and
living at home, I met and married Gail, like myself a midwesterner
who had gone east to college (she is Mount Holyoke, °48). After
seven years of considerable independence, we welcomed Hunter
(Elliott H., Jr.) and three and a half years later his sister, Alexandra.
We have all been blessed with excellent health and a wonderful life
together.

We are Detroiters, through and through, and our roots here are
deep. A great deal of our spare time is devoted to volunteer service
in the community, a habit which became well established during our
childless years. My principal interests are the care of orthopacdi-
cally handicapped children, the parish church and education at all
age levels. In the latter area I have particularly enjoyed my fifteen
years as a member of the Schools and Scholarship Committees of
the local Harvard Club. In the Class of 1940 we had five boys from
the Metropolitan Detroit area; there are twenty eminently quali-
fied boys from Metropolitan Detroit in this year’s freshman class,
a circumstance which reflects with equal favor upon the Detroit
alumni and the University.

The Detroit Orthopaedic Clinic was a pet project of Gail's before
we met. She served as its president and as a trustee before the
children arrived; now she is on the advisory committee and I am
a trustee. In general, I believe in supporting my wife’s interests and
she in supporting mine, This is not always feasible or even desir-
able, of course, but where it is possible I think it makes for a highly
satisfying and effective experience.

My practice has been tedious at times but it has also brought me
into contact with fascinating people, places and events. Problems of
private international law are no longer the sole prerogative of the
larger coastal firms: an increasing number of lawyers across the
country are having to broaden their horizons. I for one enjoy this
development. The young man who is pondering a career and wants
to see a little of the world should think seriously about the law.

As a counter-balance to the practice of law I enjoy playing golf
and a reasonable amount of physical labor directed toward tm-
provements in and around our home. My masterpicce (and my
monument) is a brick garden and patio which took almost four
years to complete.

Detroit has for years dominated Michigan and has in turn been
dominated by the automobile industry. These spheres of dominance

[ 1009 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

are gradually weakening, and Detroit and Michigan will both be
the better for this trend, Our city is enjoying a cultural and
architectural renaissance which was overdue. With an increasingly
less cyclical economy Detroit will, I feel, become an even more
pleasant place in which to live and work.

Despite our strong ties to our community, we also love to travel,
particularly in the Spanish-speaking countries. In February of 1961,
we spent some time in Argentina, Brazil and Peru, and want to go
back. We tend, however, to vacation in the summer rather than in
the winter. Hardly a summer has passed which has not found us
spending some time near Leland, on the eastern shore of Lake
Michigan.

Under the general heading of physical condition, I can report an
increase in weight of about fifteen pounds, the retention of most

of my hair, nine years of no smoking and two years of reading
glasses.

FRANK JAMES PLOSHAY

 

HOME appress: 428 W. Walnut St., Hinsdale, Il,
OFFICE AppRESS: Remiem & Kuhnert, Chicago, IIL.

PREPARED AT: Lindbloom High School, Chicago, Ill,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1938.

Married: Aurel Flora Spuehler, April 11, 1940. cumpren: Kort Allen, Oct. 15,
1947, Wendy Anne, July 21, 1952; Bruce Evan, Nov. 3, 1953.
OCCUPATION: Paint sales,

OFFICES HELD: Co-president, Monroe P.T.A,, 1961; treasurer, Little League,
1964; member, Second High School Committee.

MEMBER OF: Masonic Order; Salt Creek Club.

[ 1010 |

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE following information was sent in by Ploshay’s wife:

“Frank is attending a Sunday School teachers meeting. We are
Episcopalians, with two acolytes, one junior choir member, one
Sunday School teacher and one churchwomen’s president. Keeps
us busy — but I don’t think you could call it work. We're indc-
endent voters — which also keeps us pretty busy.

“Frank travels only locally —so together we work with one
seventeen-year-old boy who can’t decide whether to be an astro-
biologist, a political scientist, an international lawyer or an Episcopal

priest.
“One twelve-year-old girl who would like to find some way to do

housework without washing dishes, wear nylons without earning the
money for them baby-sitting, who loves the Beatles and Renoir.

“One eleven-year-old boy who cannot be separated from a ball —
foot, base or basket. He asked when he started first grade, ‘\Who
invented paper and writing — the scientific or the primitive people?

“As you can see, with Mom from the University of Chicago and
Daddy from Harvard — political science — we are constantly grate-
ful for our schools and only hope for our children about to em-
bark on the sea of knowledge that they will find friendly beacons.

“Community-wise, we are in the middle of strong individualists
which makes for interest. Our mobile population provides us with
neighbors from all over the country.

“As a family, we were stunned by the assassination of John F.
Kennedy, Class of ’40.

“Our home, our land, the things we can grow, our country, our
heritage of freedom, our future, the things we may do if man can
learn to expand his ethics from the professions to all areas of his life,
the challenge of our age — how to civilize and still remain vital —
seems to turn in our children’s generation to another question.
They can take a longer view at our war — our analyses of our faults

and virtues. God grant them a good go at it.”

{ tort }

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

NORMAN ALBURT POLANSKY

     

pA.

HOME AbprESS: 311 White Pine Drive, Asheville, N.C.

oFFIcE appress: Highland Hospital, Asheville, N.C.

PREPARED AT: Benjamin Franklin High School, Carbondale, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. lagna cum laude, 1940; M.S.s.a.
(Western Reserve Univ.), 1943; PH.D. (Univ. of Michigan), 1951.

Married: Grace Hilford, March 8, 1944 (divorced 1964); Nancy Finley, Feb.
7, 1964. CHILDREN: Grace Rachael Vaughn, Aug. 4, 1951; Jonathan Rolfe,
Sept. 13, 1954.

occupation: College professor; social and clinical psychologist; social worker.

OFFICES HELD: Member, editorial board, American Journal of Orthopsychiatry

and Merrill-Palmer Quarterly, formerly of Social Work; former chairman,
Research Section and member, board of directors, National Association of
Social Workers; former trustee, Goodrich Settlement, Cleveland; special
consultant to surgeon general, U.S. Public Health Service, etc.

{EMBER OF: National Association of Social Workers; American Psychological
Association; Society for Psychological Study of Social Issues, Academy of
Religion and Mental Health; Asheville Kennel Club; Phi Beta Kappa;
Sigma Xi; Psi Xi; etc.

cBLicaTIonS: Editor of Social Work Research, University of Chicago Press,
1960; author and co-author of some thirty-five papers in social work and

social psychological research.
FTER leaving Harvard, I had further graduate work as a res
arch assistant (in character education!) and in psychiatric social
ork, earning my Master’s before spending three years in the AUS
ring World War II. Following an undistinguished, bowed but
bloody, record there, I was a caseworker in Yonkers, New York,
d a supervisor in Minneapolis, Minnesota. My next job was as a
search man in social work at Wayne University in Detroit, whence
ventually became an associate professor, some three years later,
ving meanwhile earned a Ph.D. in social psychology at the Uni-
‘sity of Michigan. Since then I have been (as major appoint-

[ 1012 ]

I
:

~~

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ments) a research psychologist at the Austen Riggs Center, Stock-
bridge, Massachusetts, professor of social work and of psychology
at Western Reserve University in Cleveland, psychologist and
director of social service at Highland Hospital at Asheville, North
Carolina — and I have just accepted appointment as professor of
sociology and social. work at the University of Georgia. For
twelve summers I taught at Smith, too.

As befits the modern version of the professor, I have swung be-
tween direct work and teaching, with a good bit of writing includ-
ing thirty-five publications, mostly reporting research. My ex-
periences with this field have ranged from the private practice of
psychoanalytically oriented psychotherapy to membership on a
number of the government’s granting committees, to delousing a
kid so he can get accepted at the agency’s camp without getting
caught by the examining nurse. I credit Harvard with making a lor
of the intellectual side of it all possible. It was a fine education we
had, as I compare with so much of what I have since seen among
graduate students in three fields.

Married for twenty years; the first time, it ended in divorce after
two children, Vaughn and Jonathan, who are the light of my life
along with their stepmother whom I found down here in the
mountains.

IT have had my share of honors — head of my professional organiza-
tion (in social work research) and editor of the first textbook in that
field; editorial boards of several journals, etc. Also, my coronary in
August, 1963, whence the rest is borrowed time to finish rearing the
children and writing the book. If there is any benefit from such an
illness, it is in that it increases the value of life.

[ 1013 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1 940

RUPERT WILLIAM POLE

  

OEY YELLE ONE SONIC AINE AGNES UEC) ACO NR Moray Pot i telat

  
   

HOME ADDRESS: 2335 Hidalgo Ave., Los Angeles 39, Calif.
OFFICE appREss: Los Angeles City Schools, Los Angeles, Calif.
preparED AT: Beverly Hills High School, Beverly Hills, Calif.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cum latide, 1940.

MaraieD: Anais Nin, 1950.

occupation: Conservation coordinator — teacher, Los Angeles City Schools.
FINALLY found my niche in public service — conservation —
teaching, 1947. 1950— married Anais Nin, author. 1960 — built
world’s most beautiful one-room ivory tower designed by Lloyd
Wright for reflection, writing and string quartets, overlooking pool
— lake — ocean — three mountain ranges. 1965 — currently work-
ng toward solutions for revolutions on planet earth — weapons —

Dopulation — machines — race.

CHARLES NOAH POLLAK ;

 

[E ADDRESS: § Round Pond Rd., Westport, Conn.
[ 1014 ]

—~—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: 150 FE. 42d St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Bronxville High School, Bronxville, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

marrIED: Martha Eloise Spetka, May 22, 1946. CHILDREN: Pamela, Dec. 3, 19473

Peggy Ellen, Sept. 26, 1949; Christopher Walter, Aug. 28, 1950; Patricia
Perrin, March 17, 1955.

occupation: Public relations counsel, Socony Mobil Oil Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Director, since 1962, president, 1963, Fairfield Country Com-
muters Association; correspondent, United Press, Buenos Aires and Lake
Success, 1940-47, western division public relations supervisor, Maracaibo,
and assistant public relations manager, Caracas, Creole Petroleum Corpora-
tion, 1947-49, editor and publisher, Whittier (Calif.) Pictorial, 1950-52;
managing editor, Petroleum World &@ Oil, Los Angeles, 1953-54; manager,
public relations department, Tidewater Oil Company, San Francisco,
1955-58.

MEMBER OF: Public Relations Society of America; Overseas Press Club; Cedar

Point Yacht Club.

MY current assignment at Socony Mobil has to do with the op-
portunities and problems of an international oil company, with
particular reference to the Middle East and to the worldwide
chemical business.

Spare-time activities include efforts to persuade various interested
parties that the New Haven Railroad’s commuter service to New
York must be continued, [’m also involved in racing a Thistle-class
sailboat in summer and dinghies in winter.

Conviction: unless opinion leaders everywhere come to grips
with the problems of population —e.g., population growth rates
surpassing economic growth rates in developing nations — this
generation’s grandchildren will be up to their ears in underprivileged

people.

[ rors ]

___

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

BASIL RIDDIFORD POLLITT

 

OME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 52 Sidney Pl., Brooklyn 1, N.Y.

:EPARED AT: Western High School, Washington, D.C.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; LL.B. (Columbia Univ.), 1948,
arriep: Leanora Levine, 1946. cHILD: Katha Susan, Oct. 14, 1949.

CUPATION; Attorney. .

=MBER OF: National Lawyers Guild; New York County Lawyers Association.

IORTLY after Pear] Harbor I joined the Army Air Force. 1
san airborne radio operator in the Central Pacific Theatre, achiev-
‘the rank of staff sergeant. Upon discharge J attended Columbia
v School where I met and married Leanora Levine. My daughter
nds Packer Collegiate Institute, Brooklyn. I am engaged in the
cral practice of law.

[y admission to the bar coincided with the opening of an era
sh scems to continue still, where litigation in support of civil
ties and civil rights became both needed and unremunerative.
rge part of my life seems to have involved tilting at wind-
and jousting with some (real) dragons. Although I may bear
scars, I have and do enjoy the process, especially since the
ms seem to be in reluctant tactical retreat at the moment.
tunately for my economical survival as a lawyer my profes-
life is not all civil liberties cases. I am mainly engaged in the
iI practice of law: torts, contracts, commercial, estates, etc.
aps because of being older, perhaps because of my special
once as a lawyer, I find myself somewhat more cynical and,
, more understanding of institutions and individuals than I
1 the day of my graduation This has its disadvantages in
ing my morale from time to time, but on the other hand I

[ 1016 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

am better able to appreciate and respond to a generous act when }
see one.

In the 2oth Anniversary Report I stated, “Still engaged in the
practice of Jaw in New York City and enjoying myself tremen-
dously. My wife is beautiful, my daughter is charming.” These
statements still hold. Necessary amendments include my daughter's
increasing beauty and my wife’s charm. It is a remarkable experience
to be raised by an intelligent teen-age girl.

EDWARD POLS

I
1
.
b

 

HOME ApprEss: 5 Columbia Ave., Brunswick, Maine.

OFFICE AppREss: Dept. of Philosophy, Bowdoin College, Brunswick, Maine.

PREPARED AT: St. Benedict’s Preparatory School, Newark, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940; A.M. 19473
PH.D., 1949.

MarrieD: Eileen Sinnott, Oct. 17, 1942. CHILDREN: Adrian Edward, Feb. 232,
1947; Cynthia Mary, Jan. 29, 1949; Elizabeth Alison, July 7, 1953; Alison
Anne, Sept. ro, 1956, Edward Benedict, Jan. 14, 1961; Mary Farrington,
April 17, 1964.

occupaTION: Professor of philosophy; chairman, Department of Philosophy.
Bowdoin College.

MEMBER OF: American Philosophical Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Book: The Recognition of Reason, Carbondale: Southern Il-
linois University Press, 1963; “To Live at Ease Ever After,” The Sewanee
Review, spring, 1958; poem, “For John Kennedy of Harvard,” in Of
Poetry and Power: Poems Occasioned by the Presidency and by the Dearh
of John F. Kennedy, New York: Basic Books, Inc., 1964.

FROM the confusion, hard work and tedium of the war years two
periods are especially vivid in my memory: a year in London dur-
ing the time of the flying bombs, when I came to know the Lon-

[ 1017]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

doners well and indeed to feel like one of them; and a few months
of rapid travel in Germany just at the end of the war, when I took
part in the operation that sought out the various scattered frag-
ments of the German government, and thus saw at first hand and in
some detail the destructive results of the Nazi years and of the war
itself. During this time I was a member of the outpost of SHAEF
that was first concerned with military government intelligence and
planning and later became the Office of Military Government for
Germany (US). I emerged as first lieutenant and with the Bronze
Star.

After I was released from the service in February of 1946, my
wife and I settled in Cambridge and I took up the study of philosophy
in the Graduate School. It was a happy time in many ways: our
first child was born in Cambridge; but graduate study itself was a
disappointment, so that, when I turned in my dissertation in Sep-
tember of 1948, we departed without regret for my first post —
instructor at Princeton. I received the Ph.D. in February of 1949.

In the summer of 1949 I was offered an assistant professorship at
Bowdoin; I took it, and we have lived in Brunswick ever since, ex-
cept for a year and a half (1951-52), when I was recalled to the
service and put to work in Intelligence in the Pentagon, and a sab-
batical year (1958-59), which we spent mostly in London but with
some months on the Continent. While in London I wrote the first
draft of a book that came out, finally, in 1963. We lived during our
London period in a big and pleasant flat overlooking a garden
square in Kensington — quite a change from the old white house
with attached barn that we live in here in Maine.

Brunswick has been a pleasant town to live in: good air, good
climate, plenty of space, the sea in sumnfer, and the ski slopes in
winter — all things kindly to the growth of a family and harder and
harder to come by; and I am very fond of Bowdoin College, which
has been good to me, For the rest, the factual list of names and
dates at the head of my statement will have to stand for much that
is not tellable — or at least not in a short space.

[ 1018 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ARTHUR EDMUND PORTER

 

HOME ADDRESS:1059 Chestnut St., Manchester, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 45 Market St., Manchester, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Central High School, Manchester, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1938-1940. DEGREES: A.B., CUu7 laude, 1940; LL.B4 1943.
MARRIED: Eleanor Adele Scholsberg, Feb. 3, 1951. CHILDREN: James Ivan, Dec.
23, 1954; Robert Bradford, Nov. 20, 1956; John David, Feb. 13, 1959.

occupaTion: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Current — 1959-60, president, Jewish Community Center, Man-
chester, N.H.; president, New Hampshire Council for Better Schools; area
vice-chairman for State of New Hampshire, A.D.L.; vice-president, New
Hampshire Council on World Affairs.

EACH Friday evening my family becomes involved in a vast para-
military movement: Operation Exodus. Throughout the house
there is movement — a packing of clothes, a hurried meal, a cry of
distress from a child looking for a favorite belonging, and a moan
of anguish from a parent, tense with preparation, in emotional out-
burst at failures of cooperation.

The station wagon is already packed as of early afternoon. Finally,
the children are herded to the bathroom, and directly to the car.
The cool air outside is both stimulating and bracing. As the car
slowly backs out of the driveway, the strains of preparation and
of the week vanish. We are off for another weekend to our house
in the mountains, and ski country. This year we have realized the
tantalizing dream which has been ours for several years back: the
opportunity to escape to a weekend vacation home, vacationable
in every season of the year.

I am one of our Class who enjoys the benefits and discomforts of
a young family. I did not discover the ideal wife until tgst. As a
result, I now have three young boys (ten, eight and six). Although

[ 1019 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

individual by organizing a group to create any kind of program
no matter what his desire. If we want to enjoy “Art Movies,” we
form a film society. If we wish to participate in intellectual discus-
sion, we organize “Great Books.” If we wish to learn about world
affairs, or meet neighbors in foreign lands, we join the Council on
World Affairs. If we want to provide a forum for discussion of
any current topic from “the dangers of creeping socialism” to ‘‘why
abstract art,” the Jewish Community Center will provide a hall. If
we feel the schools and curriculum are inadequate, requiring a lay-
man’s prod, local and state Councils for Better Schools welcome us
with opportunity. If we feel the struggle of the Negro to obtain
his civil rights is not only just but also will provide us, our children
and America with broader horizons and greater stimulation, we can
form a local chapter of NAACP.

The last Commencement which I remember was that of 1940, At
that time I had only visual connection with the 25th Reunion
Class. There was no empathy by which I could appreciate their
then relation to Harvard and the world then around them as the
same world which encompassed me. Today, although I do not
personally feel there is any major difference between myself at
sixteen (or at twenty-one) and myself at forty-five, I still recognize
the fact that I am now forty-five, and that I have an equally tenuous
connection with a class twenty-five years younger than mine —
the Class of 1965 which also shares my 25th Reunion.

What I do know is that my present world is now filled with
more challenges than I was aware of as a member of the graduating
class, and these challenges are not matters of concern, or perils to
my security, but are truly opportunities for me and my family.
These challenges open new vistas of intellectual and physical stimu-
lation, and the exploration of these challenges will provide me with

happiness and excitement for the next twenty-five years, as they did
for the twenty-five years just passed.

[ 1022 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FRANK LESLIE PORTER

 

HOME apprEss: R.D. 3, Bridgeton, N_J.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940(41); s.M. (Columbia Univ.),

1951.

marRieD: Sarah E. App, Oct. 18, 1952. CHILDREN: Frank A., Sept. 21, 19533
Polly, Sept. 1, 1954; Hilary Anne, Sept. 7, 1957; Robert Bruce McEwan,
June 4, 1960; Sarah Elizabeth, Nov. 14, 1962.

occupaTion: Hospital administrator — retired; continue in minor capacity in
a nearby hospital,

MeMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; various health organizations — past.

THE first ten years following graduation reflect a search in all
phases — career, wife, a satisfactory religion (plus a void in a mili-
tary life because of illness). At the end of this period, after con-
siderable attempts, only one goal was reached — a career — hospital
administration.

During the next few years I became: 1) Happily married to a
wonderful girl; 1A) the father of five children; 2) A hospital ad-
ministrator, a profession in its infancy which has become a recog-
nizable challenge today; 3) A member of the Episcopal Church,
ending a pilgrimage commencing with Unitarianism, and touching
almost all Christian sects.

At present, my family is my chief interest, perhaps a curious state-
ment these days, but nevertheless true. My wife Sarah continues
to amaze me with her abilities in every channel, not only as a wife
and mother, but as a person conscious of the needs of others and
willing to do something about such needs. My children, still com-
paratively young, are a delight and an inspiration to one who has
decided to enjoy the bome rather than live life away from home —
because of business and social life.

[ 1023 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Although I have retired from active hospital administration I
continue to work in a hospital 5

in a rather minor Capacity of m
own choice. ”

The complexities of modern civilization make one shudder, but
3

there is no reason to be a defeatist if we have faith in God and
ourselves.

JACK DAVID PORTER

 

HOME apprEss: 15 Larkspur Rd., Waban 68, Mass.

OFFICE AppRESS: Mitre Corp., Route 62, Bedford, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. magna cum laude, 1940, S-M., 1941

MarRIED: Rae Siagel, Sept. 11, 1949. CHILDREN: Stephen G., April 1, 19525 Ellen
Sue and Lynne Gail (twins), June 6, 1955.

occupation: Department head, Applied Mathematics Department. ;

OFFICES HELD: Vice-chairman, St. Louis Chapter, Association for Computing
Machinery; president, P.T.A.; member, board of trustees, Temple Shalom;
member, board of directors, Waban Baseball Associates, session chairman,
1964 Spring Joint Computer Conference,

MEMBER OF: Association for Computing Machinery; Institute of Management
Sciences; Phi Beta Kappa.

pustications: Articles in Fifth Annual Proceedings of the Texas Petroleum
Research Commuttee, 1952, Journal of Applied Mechanics, 1956, American
Documentation, 1958; papers delivered to such groups as the Chemical
Market Research Conference, MILT. Industrial Liaison Program, Boston
Research Directors Group and MITRE/ESD Executive Orientation Pro-

gram.

LOOKING back over the past twenty-five years it is difficult to
keep from becoming sentimental. My first reaction after reading
the “sample lives” provided so thoughtfully by our Class Secretary

[1024]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

was to go out and hire a ghost writer. In fact, if I could locate Sidney

Carroll in his wanderings, he might be just the man to do it.

Never being one to shirk his responsibilities and goaded on by a
rather neat-looking, crimson-colored postcard, I decided that any
man worthy of claiming a degree from Fair Harvard should have the
courage to write a few biographical words in his own defense. So
here is my admittedly sentimental summation.

First I must confess to a deep sense of appreciation for the kind
of life my Harvard degree initiated for me. I have been able to
select areas of work that have been not only financially adequate,
but also intellectually satisfying.

My major interest at Harvard was mathematics. I combined this
with communications engineering in graduate school and found
myself teaching electronics during the war years in a pre-radar train-
ing course at Harvard. After the war I spent two years at Bell
Telephone Laboratory and then returned to M.I.T. for further
graduate study. It was here that my interest in mathematics led me
into the field of digital computers. I was fortunate to be able to get
my initial training on one of the world’s first operating electronic

computers, the Whirlwind I. After six years at M.I.T., 1 became
manager of applied mathematics at the Monsanto Company in St.
Louis, Missouri, manager of computing procedures at the American
Mutual Insurance Company, and now I am head of the Applied
Mathematics Department at the MITRE Corporation, At MITRE
we provide system engineering and technical support to the Air
Force’s Electronic Systems Division.

Along the way I married a most charming University of New
Hampshire graduate, Rae Siagel, who has provided me with three
energetic tax deductions. The eldest is a boy who not surprisingly
is interested in mathematics and Harvard football victories. The
other two are girls who came in a single package just in time to keep
Rae and me from attending our Class’s Fiftcenth Reunion,

As a family we are comfortably settled in suburbia, We are
happy with our school system, our neighbors and our friends, we
worry about politics but do little more than debate the issucs, we
have been active in P.T.A. and temple activities and we get to the
theatre and B.S.O. concerts regularly. Our traveling has been
sparse but selective, including trips across the country and a few
weeks in Europe. I, too, have been fighting the battle ef the bulye
by playing tennis and squash as often as possible, Allin all, [have

[ 1025 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

reached a stage of middle-age complacency,

enjoying the
and looking forward to the future. 8 Present

ROBERT ALTON PORTER

 

HoME aApnress: Valhalla Farm, Paul's Mill Road, Versailles, Ky.
OFFICE ADnRESS: Spindletop Research, Inc. Ironworks Pike, Lexington, Ky.
PREPARED AT: Penn Yan Academy, Penn Yan, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1940; PH.D. (Univ. of
North Carolina), 1949.

marriep: Annette del Sur, Dec. 16, 1943. CHILDREN: Robert Roderick, April 11,
1945; Felice, July 3, 1949; Lance Nelson, Nov. 1, 1951

occuPATION: Vice-president and technical director, Spindletop Research, Inc.
a not-for-profit industrial research institute.

MEMAER OF: Operations Research Society of America; Sigma Xi; Keeneland
Association; Thoroughbred Club of America,

pusLications: A few articles in professional journals,

SINCE the war, we have spent, in order, two years in North
Carolina, three in Chicago, four in Florida, one in Sweden, two
more in Florida, two in Colorado Springs, three in The Netherlands,
and now two in Kentucky. Although we loved all these places —
probably barring Chicago—1 hope and think that Kentucky will
be our home somewhat longer than average time.

Professionally, I started out as a mathematician or maybe a mathe-
matical statistician. Sometimes I call myself an applied mathema-
tician; however, it would probably be more accurate to say that I
have been becoming more and more a specialist in how to do re-
search regardless of the subject matter. 1 am sure, unfortunately,
that the usual dire predictions about jack-of-all-trades have come
true in my case. It has nonetheless been fun —and I have chosen
the word carefully. Perhaps it has also been challenging, stimulat-

[ 1026 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing, inspirational and other such flossy things, but when I look back
at it the pure enjoyment is what stands out.

Enjoyment may also be the keynote of our outside activities.
The whole family tends to have strong enthusiasms. Our present
family enthusiasm is thoroughbred race horses, as it has been for
the past four or five years. They are no small part of the reason
that we live on a very lovely farm — unfortunately, more pictur-
esque than practical. Horses as a hobby, even on a modest scale,
have the multiple advantage of insuring against any trace of boredom,
dull spots in Kentucky cocktail chit-chat, or surplus money. We
are also beginning to find that farms and houses built in 1800 have
much the same properties.

As a whole, the family has survived its years of geographical and
intellectual wandering extremely well. Annette delights in every-
thing about the farm, now that we have gotten rid of the sheep
and the pigs, and revels in her duties as farm manager, which she in
fact is. Rod has finished his sophomore year at Williams, and is
taking this year off to major in slave-fence building, with a minor
in farm water systems and yearling breaking. He actually has a
license as an exercise boy, but, since he is quite substantially built,
he undoubtedly will never exercise anyone’s horses but ours. Felice
is a sophomore at Woodford County High School, and finds her
principal outside activity as a Candy-Striper. Lance is in the eighth
grade at Nonesuch — there really is such a place — and is a man of
many parts. Having certain weight advantage over everyone else
on the farm, he is the exercise boy for the yearlings, and has been
since he was eleven, to the continuing alarm and concern of his
mother. He is sure that he is the world’s greatest basketball prospect
— although Nonesuch has won only one game in the last two years.
Presently he is specializing in archery, and is pricing African safaris.

As for me, I am the ringmaster without a whip.

[ 1027 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

WINSLOW TURNER PORTER

 

HOME AbpRrEss: 1054 Washington St., Bath, Maine,

OFFICE apprEss: \WJTO Radio Station, Bath, Maine.

PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Atlanta, Ga,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1939, 1940-1941, 1946-47.

MarrieD: Catherine Mary Jackson, June 21, 1941. CHILDREN: Winslow Turner,

Jr, Aug. 28, 1944; Edward Winslow, May 25, 1948; Nancy Jane, July 109,
1952; David MacDonald, June 6, 1954.

occupation; Owner and manager, radio broadcasting station,
OFFICES HELD: President, Service Club; vice-president, Chamber of Commerce

}
chairman, Fund Drives, member, Pennsylvania State Advisory Board, Sal-
vation Army; etc.

MEMBER OF: Broadcast Pioneers; Anteaters Club, Washington, D.C.; National
Association of Broadcasters; Radio Advertising Bureau; Broadcast Execu-
tives Club of Boston; Advertising Associates of Maine, American Federa-

tion of Advertising, Maine Association of Broadcasters; Associated Press;
Kiwanis International (life member).

SOME of you may wonder why my name does not appear in Class
sublications until our Fifteenth Anniversary Report. I entered Har-

vard in 1936, and Ray Healey and I were the first inhabitants of
Thayer Hall that year. My picture appeared 1 in the paper-bound
Redbook, and then no mention of me for nineteen years. Yet I
ttended all Class Reunions from the Sixth on.

It all stems from the fact that I went to sleep in Professor
oolidge’s calculus class shortly before midyears. The Dean's
fice suggested that I would ruin my health if I continued working
ill-time at a Boston radio station, where I was an announcer, and
tended Harvard, too. They offered to increase my scholarship if
would drop out and return the next year and work part-time only.
returned to Harvard in the fall of 1937, but twelve weeks in the
assachusetts General Hospital had depleted my funds, and I con-

[ 1028 ]

ct pe APS LIES III

__—1

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tinued to work full-time in Boston radio. Through an oversight,
my name was carried on the records of the Class of 1941, and I
appear in their publication from the Redbook through the Tenth
Aniversary Report. About this time I suggested that the College
put me back in the Class of 1940 where I belonged, as most of my
friends were in this Class. One other thing —I probably have the
dubious distinction of being the only Harvard man who has com-
pleted all academic work for his degree who lacks the same because
he has not satisfied his language requirement. I had always intended
to bone up on my French and take the exam after leaving school.
However, I have never found the time, and it has seemed less im-
portant through the years.

My broadcasting career began in high school, and has been in-
terrupted only by World War II. When in college, I was the co-
originator of “The 920 Club,” the forerunner of modern format
radio. In addition to announcing for Boston radio stations and
agencies while in college, I also served as New England supervisor
for the Office of Radio Research of Columbia University, and as
president of the Atlantic Metalcraft and Radio Corporation, a con-
cern manufacturing broadcast equipment, microphone signs and
advertising novelties. The “Defense” program and resulting g priority
of metals forced me to sell this business at a substantial loss i In 1941.

In 1941, I put WNAB in Bridgeport, Connecticut, on the air, and
later worked as an announcer at Hearst Radio, WINS in New
York, and for the New York Post radio station WLIB. I finally
wound up operating a string of seven standard broadcast stations
and an FM station in Virginia, West Virginia, and Pennsylvania.

My start in radio began as a ham operator when I was a boy.
By the time I was in high school I had a first class engineer's license.
My ambition has always been to have my own radio station. I tried
for my first license for one in 1938, but didn’t have much money,
and my backing fell through. Since then I have made numerous
applications, but always made the mistake of applying for the best
then available facility in the country — and always had a great deal
of opposition as well as local ownership competition.

In 1954, I applied for a very desirable big-coverage channel in
Maine. Eleven other applicants for this facility appeared in Maine,
as well as an applicant for the same channel on Cape Cod. Then
there were complications with other stations from New Hampshire
to North Carolina. This time, however, I determined to fivhe it
out to the bitter end, and prove that I could get a station of my

[ 1029 ]

ee Lo

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

own. I did after three years and a husky expenditure of funds in

the hearing.

The station, operating on 730 kilocycles, was constructed by Dr.
Harry F. Hinckley, Jr., ’40, my chief engineer. At first the call
letters were WMMS, but no one could understand it and we re-
ceived mail addresed to thirty-two different call letter combinations
so we had the call letters changed to WJTO.

During World War II, I served with the Naval Air Transport
Service, First flying with American Export Airlines, a contractual
carrier, to Europe, Africa and South America, and then on active
duty in the Pacific Theatre where I was in charge of out-base radio
radar maintenance for NATS Pacific, and NATS Asia, and was
also in charge of point-to-point communication.

I have been fortunate enough to travel many times to over fifty
countries on all continents, and I am convinced that we are only
kidding ourselves that this is “one world,” no matter how much
we may wish it so.

I am also disturbed by the fact that the United States seems to
be becoming more and more a government of men rather than laws,
and by the fact that important segments of our society seem to be
adopting the philosophy that the end justifies the means.

In 1945, 1 wrote a thesis at Harvard proving that Malthus was
right and the professors were wrong. Over-population is the world’s
biggest problem, and we go right on complicating it in every way
we can. Birth control is the only solution to the world’s problems.
But how to go about it? I have four children myself!

[ 1030 ]

- 25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ SAMUEL FELTON POSEY

 

BORN: July 14, 1918, Westerly, R-I. parents: William Campbell Posey, Hadas-

sah Felton.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.
MARRIED: Mary Jameson. cHiLD: Samuel Felton, Jr.

pep: Killed in action, April 2, 1945, off Okinawa.

AFTER a year with our Class, Posey transferred to the University
of Pennsylvania and graduated from the Wharton School in 1942.
He was commissioned an ensign in the U.S. Naval Reserve in
October, 1942, and after a year of service in the Pacific was trans-
ferred to the Atlantic. In 1944 he took part in both the Normandy
and Mediterranean invasions of France and was promoted to the
rank of lieutenant (j.g.). He then returned to the Pacific Theatre
and was killed in action when his ship was struck by a Japanese
suicide plane. He was survived by his wife and son.

[ 1031 ]

a —_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

up Class of 1943. After a year of surgical internship at the Peter
Bent Brigham Hospital, I went on active duty in the U.S. Naval
Reserve, serving in the Third Marine Division of the Fleet Marine
Force for two and a half years. After that, I came back to the
Peter Bent Brigham Hospital in Boston, for more surgical training,
and during this ime I came under the influence of Dr. William C.
Quinby and Dr. Hartwell Harrison, urologic surgeons at the Peter
Bent Brigham, who awakened my interest in the field of urologic
surgery.

In 1949, 1 moved to Cleveland, Ohio, to complete my urologic
training and stayed on at the Cleveland Clinic Foundation on the
urologic staff for the next thirteen years. During these years I
became interested in the blood supply of the human kidney with
particular reference to disease of the blood supply of the kidney
which may be associated with hypertension. This occupied a good
deal of my time from 1955 on. In 1963 I decided to make a change
from my type of work and made plans to go into partnership
with some old friends, urologists in Norfolk, Virginia. After many
years of institutional medicine, I rather enjoy the opportunity and
frecdom of private practice. Furthermore, we are busily engaged

in the development of a medical center in Norfolk, a challenging
experience.

My eldest son, Robert, is now a junior at the University of
Michigan.

I have been quite impressed by some of the midwestern and
western universities and I rather doubt that any of my several sons
will be going to Cambridge. As for hobbies, I have several but
the most recent venture is one that has been largely instituted by
my wife, the raising of Doberman Pinscher show dogs, an interesting
and quite time-consuming venture, though often frustrating.

[ 1034]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LORING WEBSTER POWELL

 

HOME Apbpress: 50 Hinckley Rd., Waban, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley St.,
Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; M.B.A., 1942.

mMarrigp: Winifred Saurwein, Dec. 28, 1943. CHILDREN: Anne Stuart, July 25,

_ 1946; Robert Loring, July 28, 1949.

occupation: Life insurance; director of group pension sales and service, re-
sponsible for selling and servicing of corporate group pension plans.

OFFICES HELD: Corporate member, Morgan Memorial, since 1957; treasurer, Bos-
ton Wesleyan Building, since 1959; president, board of pensions, Methodist
Church in New England, since 1961; president, Squirrel Island Chapel
Association, since 1960; vice-president, Preachers Aid Society Investment
Fund, since 1959; trustee, Newtonville Methodist Church, since 1957;
member, Personnel Committee, Massachusetts Council of Churches,

MEMBER OF: American Pension Conference, Waban Neighborhood Club; Lake-
wood Tennis Club; Squirrel Island Village Corporation; Newton Indoor
Tennis Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years— it doesn’t seem possible. Do I think
differently — feel differently? I suppose so, but I’m hardly aware
of it. Yes, we all look different. Most of us have gained weight
(about forty pounds in my case, but I was skinny!). We're older.
But the essential ingredients — the spark of living — they still seem
the same. Let’s hope they stay that way.

How does one sum up twenty-five years? In terms of several
things:

First, in terms of family — My wife and two children have done
more to shape my life and give it an incentive than anything else.
And it’s been fun! The four of us can put together a good family
mixed doubles combination in tennis. Many a weekend we ski

[ 1035 ]

el L—

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

together — even though I confess Dad often won’t go where the
other three take off with abandon. Our summers on an island in
Maine with boating, tennis, and friends are high points of our livin
together. The closeness is changing as it must. Our daughter
entered Keuka College in New York last fall. Our son, in high
school, is getting ready for the college road and his independentice is
already manifest. But don’t jump to the conclusion my wife and I
are about ready to retire — far from it. When I see her leave for
her lessons at the skating club, I realize it isn’t time for the old man
to slow down yet!

In terms of a job —Little did ] expect when I finished the Busi-
ness School in 1942 I'd be saying today, “Over twenty years with the
same company doing essentially the same type of work.” Yet, that’s
what it has been, but in case you think it sounds dull, it’s been far
from it. I’ve been in the midst of the mushrooming, competitive,
frantic development of the private pension field in our country. In
recent years, along with so many of you, it’s been: pack the bag;
grab the jet; prepare like mad (hope it’s not three-and-three seat-
ing); make the call; put out the fire —I hope; back home late; to
the office where the pile is waiting; then off again. It can get hectic
but time never hangs heavy. In those occasional brief moments
when one sits back and philosophizes about his job, I have a firm
conviction that how we Americans shape our financial security
determines in large measure the nature of our society and our
government. I’m not about to write off the importance of in-
dividual initiative as part of this—call it private enterprise if you
will.

In terms of some intangibles —I suspect this is one area where
we really tend to change the most as the years slip along. Some-
how the material isn’t quite so important as it seemed in those under-
graduate days. Argyle socks and expensive cravats aren’t what they
used to be. More and more the important values appear in terms of
things we call love, beauty, service, spirit. Why is it so? Probably
there are many reasons which differ for different people, but what-

ever they are it is all part of the fun of living and the never-ending
process of growing up.

[ 1036 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LYNDON EPHRAIM PRATT

 

HOME appreEss: R,D. 2, Norwell, Mass. 02061.

OFFICE ADDRESS: United Electric Controls Co., 85 School St., Watertown, Mass.
02172.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarRieD: Anne Randolph Gray, 1948, Cohasset, Mass. cHipren: Thomas
Tarvin Gray Cabot, June 25, 1939 (mm. Maria Doleres, July, 1961),
Oliver Hazard Perry Cabot, Jr., June 3, 1942; Robin Randolph Cabot,
March 4, 1945 (by wife’s previous marriage); Christine Anne, March 9
1950; Timothy Lyndon Ephraim, April 20, 1953. GRANDCHILD: Celeste Ana
Bulda Cabot, May 6, 1962.

occupation: Director of marketing, United Electric Controls Company; re-
sponsible for advertising, literature, sales promotion and sales department
administration.

PUBLICATIONS: “How to Prepare Better Sales Literature,” in Jndustrial Marketing
magazine, 1957.

FOLLOWING graduation, I went into shipbuilding at Bethlehem’s
Quincy Yard — before I really knew what I wanted to do in life —
and I have remained in business ever since. In 1942 I volunteered for
Navy service and served about two years as exec and then skipper
of USS LCI (L) 547; a great ship and crew who took me across the
Pacific twice and many peripheral oceans and places.

Following the war, I returned to shipbuilding and a country club
life which I gaily pursued until my marriage in 1948. W ith the
decline of shipbuilding, I joined an instrument manufacturer (United
Electric Controls Company, Watertown, Massachusetts) and what-
ever business success I have had — and hope to have — has been with
this company.

During the years, I acquired four boys and one girl who now range

[ 1037 ]

so

L-

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

from twelve years to twenty-four. Their schooling, by no means
over, is now beginning to read like a Directory of New England
Schools — Williams, University of Vermont, New England College
Thayer Academy, McDonogh, Belmont Hill, Derby Academy; that
mountain lodge I have had my heart set on (I gave up boats years
ago) is going to have to wait, I only hope I won't be too old to en-
joy it!

Dating the years, I have been sustained by my family — par-
ticularly by my wife who keeps me in line, more or less; by books;
by mountain-climbing; and by the idea of writing. My wife and
children are Episcopalians. I seldom go to church, although I am
seriously interested in religion as an individual experience.

Although I majored in government, I’ve never been interested in
olitics — or community affairs, for that matter. I occasionally feel

a little guilty about this but manage to justify this inactivity. I have
always been more interested in what things and people are than in
how they work or what they do. This leads me to question the
emphasis in colleges on social and applied science, government,
economics, and languages vs. the relatively little concern among the
student bodies with philosophy, poetry, mathematics, and religion.
A solid background in Greek thought, for example, which largely
has set the course of western civilization, would seem to be essential.
Let’s face it! It’s life that is fundamental — not how to make a living
or move about in our particular society.

1 believe the Spanish educator, Ortega, was right when he wrote,
“A good school teaches one what to want.” It would be more ac-
curate in my case to say, “A good school teaches one what ot to
want.” On the whole, I give Harvard an “A” on this and take issue
with those who, following the lead of Henry Adams, debunk Har-
vard and colleges in general because their lives in the years after have
not come up to expectations. Harvard taught me to question, al-
though it has taken me a good many years and a lot of reading to
realize that true knowledge lies in formulating the right questions.

This is not to say that my own life has “come up to expectations,”
as if that were ever possible. There is the constant struggle to resist
trivia, routine, and pressure —and the days fly by! By and large,
though, I have been lucky. A fine, handsome family, healthy and
doing well; a minimum of trouble and tragedy; and a few highlights,

such as college years, that can only be explained to those who have
been.

I regret, though, that I have not made more effort to keep in touch

[ 1038 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with more classmates. Perhaps the Twenty-fifth will rectify this.
I am looking forward to it!

MORTIMER WATSON PRATT

  

Bae

ay a
* LB ener
coy Pom

 

HOME AppREss: 456 Colebrook Lane, Bryn Mawr, Pa.
OFFICE AppREss: Smith, Kline & French Laboratories, 1500 Spring Garden Se,

Philadelphia, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarRIED: Ann Bostwick, Oct. 26, 1940. CHILDREN: Vaughan Watson, Jan. 4
1942 (m. Nancy Burr Turner, Dec. 21, 1963); Ann Duval, Dec. 3. 1944
David Tomlinson, July 6, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Herbert Watson Pratt, 46; Davis Weld Pratt, °46.

occuPaTION: Manager, Administrative Department, Research & Development
Division, Smith, Kline & French Laboratories, pharmaceutical manufac-
turers.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Mercy-Douglass Hospital, Philadelphia, 1959-63.

MEMBER OF: Delphic Club; Prouts Neck Yacht Club (commodore),

[ 1039 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

PETER EGAN PRATT

    

 

)

Pecan fi he ‘

oy
a)

E apprEss: South Road, Brentwood, R.F.D., Fremont, N.H.

E appress: New England Merchants National Bank, 28 State St., Boston,
fass.

RED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.
ep: Sheila M. Devereux, Sept. 15, 1945 (divorced 1958); Constance E.
Hou, Dec., 1958. cHitpREN: E. Edith, March 3, 1947; Sheila Devereux,
rril 7, 1949; Peter Egan, Jr. 1953.
rion: Assistant vice-president, Correspondent Bank Division.

HELD: Director, Alumni Records Office, 1948-52; secretary, Harvard
mni Association, 1951-56; president, Harvard College Class Secretaries
ciation, 1962-63; initial chairman (now board member), Rockingham
nty R.A.D. member, Troop Committee, Troop 192, B.S.A., Brent-
d, N.H., since 1960; chairman, 1964 Fund Drive, Swiftwater Girl Scout
acil of New Hampshire and Vermont; board member, New England
e for Little Wanderers; member of Council, YMCA, Boston, com-
2 member, Southeastern District, New Hampshire YMCA, secretary,
rd College Class of 1940, since 1940.
xs: Editor, Harvard Alumni Directory, 1948 edition, largest pub-
1 in sheer bulk in Harvard anals'

le the prescribed task of twenty-five years in review, I
off and look at the twenty-sixth year. The summer
ur junior and senior years, I had the opportunity of
utoring job outside of Brussels, Belgium, looking after a
1x to ten children with a charming family, My boss was
lum general staff, and as war clouds gathered, I had the
erience of having him tell me of the Belgian hopes and
‘e was the indomitable little Maginot line and its ceneral
he Polish invasion came; clouds burst into flame, my

golf tour with our late President disappeared in the

[ 1040 |

eee ti AOIIE TS OES TOOL PII PS

ent ert teatasecamen mentee ttpireteriatinansnamennpuapemneneennesntcee nT
a i

pod

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

confusions. Any efforts to join the Ambulance Corps were denied
by lack of visas, so I returned to college, with the final Belgian fare-
well of “Best wishes, and we’ll see you soon, back here, to help us

out.”
Upon graduation, I guess I felt I must once again personally try to

make the World safe for democracy. The Navy V-7 seemed the
solution as it was for so many classmates who had splendid Navy
careers. But apparently in those early days an officer and gentleman
needed a splendid set of even teeth to perform his duties, so with
some apologetic and routine regret expressed by the government, I
was returned to civilian life. A brief career in the textile business
that saw a meteoric rise from $12.50 a week to $15, and a move
from the middle to the day shift suggested it was once again time for
me to try to save the World.

Enlistment in the regular Army was the avenue to walk down,
On occasion, I would return home with pride in my 1916 blouse
and overcoat, and be almost cheered as a returnee from the Army of
Occupation. Progress from private to sergeant followed, but in-
stead of the Charge of the Light Brigade, I found myself degreasing
1o mm. British rifles that had been too long in storage. OCS then
beckoned at Fort Sill, and assignment in June of 1942, to a tank
destroyer unit. Africa and Italy with a gun company got me nearer
to my goal, but then a jeep, a road block, and some mines ended the
active pursuit. Two years later, and partially mobile, I was retired,
“with thanks,” and started out with Houghton Mifflin, the Boston
publishers,

In 1947 the Harvard Corporation decided to issue their first post-
war directory, and somehow I fitted in with their plans. With hele
knowledge of the complications of such an undertaking, we pro-
duced a massive volume, which I still believe is the most impressive
Harvard publication — so far as bulk is concerned!

From the Records Office, I went to the Alumni Office at the
suggestion of Mr. Conant. I found this a very salubrious under-
taking. I was the first ‘hired hand’ in this position, there were no
ground rules, and it presented a real challenge to serve Elarvard and
her alumni. The regional work with Harvard clubs and Harvard's
admissions office was exciting and challenging.

After ten years it seemed appropriate to move along. Boston's
New England Trust Company was looking for someone to sct up a
service bureau for banks similar to the alumni office. IT welcomed
the opportunity. I had to learn to spell BANK with a K not a Q,

[ r0qt ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

but basically the approach is the same; the challenges are endless
and rewarding when solved.

Our Twentieth Anniversary Report touches on our move to New
Hampshire. Life on a farm is very satisfying. We've been certified
as tree farmers and proudly show our white sign. We've got too
many gardens going; plant too many trees; have too many animals;
are involved in too many local projects, but we wouldn’t change a
thing. The girls are at Northfield; Petey at school locally and, for
two vears, a member of the undefeated Little League team. Connie
is up to her ears with an educational job she can run from the farm,

as well as involved, like so many other wonderful 1940 wives, in
hospital boards, chauffeuring, etc.

As for the future, although I didn’t make the world safe for
democracy, I feel it is safe, and ’'m very optimistic.

THOMAS JAMES PRESSLY

 

HOME appress: 4545 E. Laurel Drive, N.E., Seattle, Wash. 98105.

oFFice appress: Dept. of History, University of Washington, Seattle, Wash.
PREPARED AT: Knoxville High School, Knoxville, Tenn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1940; A.M., 1941; PHD
1950 .

Marnigd: Lillian Cameron, April 30, 1943. cepren: Thomas James, 2d, Nov. 4
1948; Stephanie Cameron, Jan. 23, 1949.

OCCUPATION: Professor of history.
OFFICES HELD: President, American Studies Association of the Pacific North-
west, 1961-62.

member oF: American Historical Association; American Studies Association;
Southern Historical Association, Southern Regional Council; Congrega-
tional Church.

[ 1042 ]

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PUBLICATIONS: Book: Americans Interpret Their Civil War (1954, paperback
ed., 1962); article: “Lincoln and the ‘Right of Revolutions” The Ameri-
can Historical Review, April, 1962; book reviews in historical journals.

AS I write these comments after a Saturday morning of tennis, and
as I look back over the twenty-five years since 1940, tennis scems one
of the persistent continuities. Tennis and touch football — both of
which go back for me before 1940 to elementary school davs, and
both of which stretch forward from 1940 to this morning’s tennis
and to last week’s touch football with my son, a sophomore at Johns
Hopkins. Skiing was added in the 1950’s several years after I moved
to Seattle in 1949; I probably enjoy the day in the snow as much or
more than the skiing itself, but that may be because I am not expert
at skiing. When I write the account for the Fiftieth Class Report in
1990 and for the Seventy-fifth Report in 2015, I hope to report that
tennis, touch football, and skiing remain pleasant continuities, For
whatever it may indicate about the tastes in these matters of one tiny
fraction of the next generation, I can report that neither my son
(nineteen years of age) nor my daughter (almost sixteen) ts overly
fond of tennis, but they both enjoy touch football, and both are
avid and expert skiers.

A quick summary of what has happened to me since 1940 runs
like this: I at once began graduate study in history at Harvard, and
received the A.M. degree in June, 1941. In that same month, I
entered the armed forces as a draftee and remained in uniform until
November, 1945, serving in various sections of the United States
the Republic of Panama, and Italy. When the war in Europe ended
I was an aerial navigator flying combat missions with the 15th Air
Force in Italy. Between trips overseas I was married in 1943, and our
son was born in 1945. Returning to Cambridge in 1946, I resumed
the graduate study of history. While completing the requirements
for the Ph.D. degree at Harvard, I taught for three vears (1944 to
1949) in the Department of History at Princeton, and our daughtee
was born in New Jersey in 1949. I joined the Department of 1 listory
at the University of Washington in the autumn of 1949 and have
remained in that department ever since, although I have spent twa
academic years at Princeton (1951-52 and 1953-54), one at the
Behavioral Sciences Center at Stanford (1955-56), and one suminer
at Stanford University (1963).

Looking back at the Harvard of the late 1930's, Tam still imprewed

(as I was at the time) with the great effort that was made by the
University to seek out and bring to Cambridge able students from ai}

[ 1043 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

over the country, regardless of their economic circumstances or of
their family’s previous educational background. It is my impression
that Harvard led the way then and still leads now in seeking in-
tellectual ability in its students and on a nation-wide basis. I liked
and respected the fact also that Harvard was large enough, cosmo-
politan enough, and tolerant enough so that undergraduates were not
forced into any one pattern, but, instead, were left free to find and
develop their own interests. In September, 1936, Assistant Dean
Chauncey was the only person I knew in Cambridge or, for that
matter, in any of the vast area north of Tennessee. I came to know
Professors Buck, Merk, Leopold, and Owen, and they, with Dean
Chauncey, personified for me the ideas for which Harvard stood.
Exposure to those ideas was an experience which put me forever in
debt both to the individual professors and to Harvard itself.

Today I see undergraduates who in appearance, or personality, or
character, or interests remind me of the Class of 1940 as I remember
them, for I have not actually seen many classmates since graduation.
Whether today’s undergraduates differ fundamentally in outlook or
in values from the individuals who graduated at Harvard twenty-
five years ago is a question for which relevant evidence seems to me
sparse and inconclusive. My own impressions on the subject fluctuate
from one year to the next.

This type of looking backward which a twenty-fifth anniversary
report stimulates is pleasant, but there also comes to mind the pun-

gent w arning of Satchel Paige: “Don’t look back — something might
be gaining on you.”

| 1044 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD PHILIP PRINCE

  

HOME ADDRESS: Tamworth, N.H.

OFFICE appREss: American Embassy, Ankara, Turkey.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarriED: Dorothy Eileen Kennedy, Oct. 28, 1946. CHILDREN: Noelle M., March
8, 1948; Jonathan J.. Aug. 13, 1949; Anthony P., Sept. 4, 1950; Philip,
Jan. 18, 1955.

occupation: U.S, Foreign Service officer; First Secretary of Embassy — eco-
nomic officer.

MEMBER: American Foreign Service Association; various societies abroad.

EIGHTEEN years in the Foreign Service of the United States has
provided a rich variety of stimulating friendships and experiences,
as well as the continuing satisfaction denoted by that word “service.”
Although progress up a lengthening ladder has seemed painfully
slow, this career has proved to be worth much more than a mere
job which might offer greater financial rewards. Among other ways,
its worth can be measured by the appreciation acquired for the fine
character and ability of countless citizens of other lands, by the
insight gained into the values of other societies, by the simple enjoy-
ment of the idiosyncrasies as well as the common bonds of the human
species.

We have been fortunate in having assignments to posts in which
educational facilities have been adequate, and thus our family has
been able to stick together. Now the progression of children to
college will start with our daughter, but hereafter our experience
will differ from that of most classmates only in respect to enforced
separations from our children during their shorter vacations. One
disadvantage of the Service, I frankly admit, is the loss of contact
with former friends and associates, such as Harvard classmates.

[ 1045 ]

a

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Consequently, it is doubly a matter of regret to have to miss Re.
unions, particularly the Twenty-fifth.

However, I suspect that mine is only an extreme version of the
lot of almost all of us as we become immersed in different interests
and dispersed communities. The difference of degree is for me
compensated by the escape from the rut of suburbia, the blare of the
hucksters, and the banality of mass “culture.” No, I ain’t no snob,
but I am increasingly conscious of the disparity between how much
America can teach in terms of material standards of living and how
much it can learn in terms of enjoyment of living.

Amid all the changes in posts and work assignments, the Foreign
Service does provide a sense of continuity. The four and a half years
spent as a Naval aviator (1941-45) do seem like an unrelated chapter
from someone else’s biography. On the other hand, the year sand-
wiched in between Harvard and the Navy at the Virginia Theologi-
cal Seminary (1940-41) provided a base for continuing activity in
various subsequent Christian parishes such as that here in the heart
of Moslem Turkey. Incidentally, this developing country is most
underdeveloped in tourism, for it offers great riches for anyone in-
terested in the early Christian era of St. Paul and the seven churches
of Asia, as well as in Hittite, Greek, Roman, and Byzantine civiliza-
tions. For those without the slightest interest in history and archae-
ology, the countryside, particularly the long and varied coastal
regions, offers ample beauty and recreation. Provided that readers

of this blurb don’t require every convenience of home, I suggest that
they consider Turkey the next time they are planning a trip to the
eastern Mediterranean.

spree ee o °
pets
nay neoumaprigassancet me :
ene 08) . Co kea eh ae ke Ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALFRED WYNNE PUTNAM

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 8500 Seminole Ave., Philadelphia, Pa. 19118.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Hart, Childs, Hepburn, Ross & Putnam, 200 Two Penn Center
Plaza, Philadelphia, Pa. 19102.

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LL.B. (Univ. of Pennsylvania),
1947-

MarRiED: Anne Beale, June 25, 1948. ceitpREN: Anne Leonard, Aug. 5, 1949;
Alfred Wynne, Jr., Sept. 27, 1951; Edward Beale, Sept. 1, 1953.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Cook Putnam, ’47.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer.

OFFICES HELD: Currently, member, board of directors, South Chester Tube
Company; Dodge Steel Company; Chester Tidewater Terminal, Inc.; South
Chester Corporation; Lyon Fasteners, Inc.; United Fund of Philadelphia
and Vicinity; Family Service of Philadelphia (president 1956-59); Ameri-
can Oncologic Hospital; Spring Garden Institute; Young Men's Institute,
The Library Company of Philadelphia (secretary, since 1958); secretary.
Baederwood Center, Inc., since 1956; trustee of endowment funds of
Church of the Advocate and sundry private trusts; lieutenant commander,
U.S. Naval Reserve (Retired); vestryman, Church of St. Martin in the
Fields, 1957-62; deputy to Convention of Protestant Episcopal Church of
Diocese of Pennsylvania, 1961-62; note editor, University of Pennsylvanta
Law Review, 1947; member, board of directors, University of Pennsylvania
Law Alumni Society, 1954-59; part-time lecturer, University of Pennsyt-
vania Law School, 1951.

MEMBER OF: American, Pennsylvania and Philadelphia Bar Associations; Juris-
tic Society; Junior Legal Club; Sharswood Law Club; American Judicature
Society; Philadelphia Club; State in Schuylkill; Racquet Club; Harvard
Club of Philadelphia; Philadelphia Cricket Club; St. Anthony Club of
Philadelphia; Penn Club; Commanderie de Bordeaux; Society of Colonial
Wars; Numismatic and Antiquarian Society of Philadelphia.

AFTER graduation from Harvard, I attended the University of
Pennsylvania Law School for one year and was then called to active

[ 1047 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

duty in the Naval Reserve. I was released from active duty as
lieutenant commander, returned to law school and graduated in 1947.
When at law school, I was the note editor of the University of
Pennsylvania Law Review and have continued to be interested in
that institution ever since, | was part-time lecturer at the University
of Pennsylvania Law School in t951 and have served as a member of
its Alumni Society Board.

T have been engaged in the practice of law in Philadelphia con-
tinously since 1947 with the same firm, then Norris, Bell, Lex, Hart
& Eldredge, now named Hart, Childs, Hepburn, Ross & Putnam.
Although the greater part of my professional work has been in
financial and probate matters, I have endeavored to keep generally
familiar with most fields of the law, which regrettably is becoming
increasingly difficult in this age of specialization.

1 have been very lucky in having a wife who has enjoyed the
things in which [am interested and in my children who are now
growing up and seem to be developing well.

My principal hobbies are fishing, cooking and gardening. I have
been interested in a number of charitable organizations, especially
those listed above, and am currently serving as president of Chest-

nut Hill Academy, a boys’ preparatory school, and as secretary of
Spring Garden Institute, a technical institute and junior college.

GARDNER COWLES QUARTON

 

HOME appress: Weston Road, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE apoRESs: Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED At: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1930. DEGREES: 3.8, Cut laude, 1940; M.D., 1944.

Makniep: Frances Baxter, Oct. 9, 1942. cHiLpreN: Gardner Cowles, Jr. Jam. 14
1947; William Baarer, Feb. 28, 1949; Thomas, Nov. 3, 1950.

[ 1048 ]

_________]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Psychiatry (research).

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts Medical Society; American Medical Association;
American Psychiatric Association; American Psychosomatic Society, Psy-
chophysiological Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Miscellaneous papers on psychosomatic medicine and effects of
drugs and hormones on human behavior and cognitive processes.

MY decision to go to medical school was not made until my college

graduation. Since I had not taken a premedical program, I completed

a few chemistry courses, and, while waiting for medical school ap-

plications to be returned, spent a year at the Harvard Graduate

School in psychology. This was followed by four years at the Har-

vard Medical School compressed into three and a half and an in-

ternship at the Boston City Hospital. I was married in my second
medical school year. In the last days of the war I was a doctor on

a destroyer, first in the Atlantic and later in the Pacific.

On returning to the Boston area, we lived in Cambridge and I
completed my medical training with two years as resident in
neurology and three in psychiatry, chiefly at the Massachusetts
General Hospital under Doctor Stanley Cobb. During this period
my three sons were born. Since completing my training I have re-
mained on the staff of the Massachusetts General Hospital and the
Harvard Medical School.

In 1954, the government finally realized that I had spent con-
siderably less time in uniform than most of the rest of you and called
me back to active duty in the Navy for an additional year and a half.
My commanding officer told me I had so much longevity, I could
not afford to get out of the service, but I decided to risk it, and re-
turned to my wife, children, and the study of human behavior.

Although I have done some neurologic, psychiatric and psycho-
analytic practice, I have in recent years been full time in teaching
and research at the Massachusetts General Hospital and the Harvard
Medical School. I have been particularly interested in the interaction
between biological and environmental determinants of behavior and
cognitive processes.

Since 1951 we have lived in Lincoln in a house designed by my
architect wife. During 1963-64, I was a fellow at the Center for
Advanced Study in the Behavioral Sciences at Stanford, California
(the “Think-Tank”’), and enjoyed the California climate as well as a

year away from Harvard. My sons are all old enough to be away at
school. Fran is as busy and happy in the practice of architecture as
I am in psychiatric research.

[ 1049 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JOSEPH QUATTRONE

 

HOME apprEss: 124 Lockwood Rd., Riverside, Conn.

OFFICE ADpREss: American Export Isbrandtsen Lines, Inc., 26 Broadway, New
York, N.Y. 10004.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1949.
_marriep: Barbara Williams, Aug, 29, 1942. CHILDREN: David Francesco, May 17,
1944; Peter Nelson, March 29, 1946; Robert Pierce, March 21, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Steamship business; assistant vice-president, freight administration
and sales.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Downtown Athletic Club; Riverside
Yacht Club; Greenwich Skating Club, Greenwich, Conn.

ON my entrance application I indicated that I wanted to go to

Harvard “to learn to think.” In retrospect, I do not think I ac-
tually learned until much, much later. Regrettably, I did not take
advantage of the opportunities offered in college. I tried law schoo!
afterw ard: didn’t like it; transferred to the Business School which I
enjoyed tremendously, but part-way through was drafted into the
Army.

After a four-year stint in the Transportation Corps, in 1946 I
oined American Export Lines, Inc., and spent my first four years in
\lexandria, Fgypt. I returned to the home office in 1951, and have
een with the same steamship company (recently merged into
.merican Export Isbrandtsen Lines, Inc.) continuously. My assign-
rents have varied from claims adjusting, through administration,
perations, freight traffic, trade research (gathering commercial
telligence), and Personne work, to directing freight sales. I
ound up approximately two years ago in this rather unexpected
Id. It is a fascinating challenge to one who is more administrator
an salesman. I have found it particularly enjoyable, as I wrestle

[ 1050 ]

ae i

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

daily with the problems of selling a service and motivating salesmen.

I still like to read and discuss (in continuation of college bull
sessions? ). I wish I had studied philosophy, which to some extent
I have developed and sustained as a field of interest by leading and
taking part in Great Books discussion groups. A guiding principle
that appeals to me has been a prayer originated, I believe, by Rein-
hold Niebuhr: “God grant me the Serenity to accept the things I
cannot change, the Courage to change the things I can, and the
Wisdom to know the difference.” I find it’s the Wisdom that I need
most.

In twenty-five years since college I have developed an absorbing
interest in people and a particular respect for individual differences.
I also have learned of the need for constant adaptability to change,
and I am learning to place increasing value on personal honesty and
integrity.

I live in suburbia (the same house for fourteen years) and com-
mute to New York City, but, if I could, I would prefer to live in the
Green Mountains of Vermont.

I am convinced that the best investment one can make is in educa-
tion, and that is where the money goes: my three sons and wife all
go to schools requiring a large cash outflow: one son at Stanford,
another at Rollins, a third at Greenwich Country Day School, and
my wife at Pratt Institute seeking a Master’s degree in Library
Science. If I did not have to provide the wherewithal, I might w cll
be back in school myself.

THOMAS HOWARD EMERSON QUIMBY

 

HOME appress: P.O. Box 30518, Nairobi, Kenya.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Peace Corps, P.O. Box 30518, Nairobi, Kenya,

[ rost ]

HARVARD CLASS OF [940
PREPARED aT: Central High School, Grand Rapids, Mich.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B, cv laude, 1940.

markigp: Lucy Foster Williams, Jan. 31, 1941. CHILDREN: Lucy Gardner, Aug.
23, 1944; Thomas Butterworth, Nov. 25, 1947.

occupation: Director of U.S, Peace Corps, Kenya.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant counselor for veterans, Harvard College, 1945-46;
traffic manager, Doehler-Jarvis Division, National Lead Company, 1946-
55; chairman, Kent County Democratic Committee, 1952-55; president,
Citizens Action, 1951-52; member, Grand Rapids City Planning Comm.,
1950-51; president, Harvard Club of Western Michigan, 1949-51; director,
Workmen's Compensation Department, State of Michigan, 1955-58; treas-
urer, G. Mennen Williams Program Fund, 1958-1; Democratic National
Committeeman for Michigan, 1956-61, chairman, Steering Committee,
Democratic Midwest Conference, 1958-61; director of recruitment, U'S.
Peace Corps, 1961; director, Peace Corps, Liberia, 1962-64.

MY career history and social and political convictions are pre
well summarized in the hodge-podge of “offices held.” Perhaps
some explanation is in order. In college I planned first to be a minis-
ter which influenced my choice of a field of concentration, phil-
osophy. At graduation I put down “civil service” as my intended
career indicating a nebulous desire to go into government work.
Career plans called for training in regional planning, so off to the
Harvard Graduate School of Design with the very unrealistic goal
of a Master’s degree in regional planning. World War Ii rescued
me from this course of action and guaranteed me employment from
June of 1941 to September of 1945, first as a naval supply officer on
a thirteen-knot tanker that sailed for the last time from Pearl Harbor
on January 22, 1942, then with an aircraft service unit on Oahu and
then O-in-C of the Naval Aviation Supply Officers School in
Jacksonville, Florida, until September, 1945. Not finding any de-
scription of my talents in the help-wanted columns of the New York
Times, 1 wrote the Harvard Alumni Placement Office for sugges-
tions and ended up on Bill Bender's staff as an assistant counsellor
for veterans. From then on it has seemed to me that my career has
not been the product of any careful design, but the result of situa-
tions ranging from illness of parents to having an interest in public
service, a conviction that Democratic policy is more realistic and
idealistic than other political policy, and working in a city (Grand
Rapids) that has not produced a Democratic majority since 1892.
Probably the most important situation affecting my career, if it’s
proper to call her a situation, is my Radcliffe 40 wife. She initiated
me into the pleasures of walking in the White Mountains and thinks
it’s fun to bake bread on a wood stove. And in Kenya I actually am

[ 1052 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

becoming a bird watcher. The importance she gives to ideas, to
attitudes, to the sustaining force of the natural world has caused
me to have a cavalier attitude toward such things as retirement pen-

sions.
As I examine my current occupation I am inclined to give it a

high score on my own score card. The Peace Corps is doing a great

work overseas by multiplying thousand-fold the individual processes

of learning and understanding both of the American Volunteers and
of the peoples whom they serve. My own job is a nice combination
of supply sergeant, college dean and diplomat in dungarees. The job
calls for as much time to be spent in the villages as in the office. A
Peace Corps staff member’s job is a family affair, his wife can be as
involved as he is. Lucy and I have much more time together overseas
than we ever did in the States. The one great drawback is the in-
frequency with which we see our daughter Lucy, now completing
her senior year at Radcliffe after taking time out to work in an
archeological expedition in Tanzania, and our son Tom, an upper-
middler at Exeter, who two years ago got on the road to self-con-
fidence by navigating a dug-out canoe off the coast of Liberia where
he lived with us for a year.

What of the future? From where I sit the immediate future does
not look bright. We are not successful in our efforts to isolate one-
quarter of the world’s population and we don’t have a reasonable
proposal under public debate. While those of you in the States may
feel that progress in human rights within the United States is very
rapid, here we wonder if the pace is adequate to avoid catastrophe
in our international relations.

The situation does look better at longer range. The impression of
American personality given the world by our late classmate and the
response of the world to this impression are phenomena of a hopeful
situation. Furthermore, anyone privileged to see the Peace Corps
Volunteers at work must conclude that a society which can produce
such initiative, energy, independence, imagination and friendliness

isa society which may become great.

[ 1053 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

GEORGE QUINT

 

ME Appress: 14 Avondale Rd., White Plains, N.Y. 10605.

ICE Appress; 320 Park Ave., New York, N.Y. 10022.

2arep aT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass,

28 IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. CU7H laude, 1940; A.M, 1941.

kiep: Barbara Ann Gilder, June 1, 1952, CHtLpreN: Andrew Robert, Aug, 3,
1953; Douglas Joseph, April 25, 1956; Thomas David, Jan. 9, 1958.

patios: Research associate for investment counsel firm, financial analysis
f investment securities,

ss HELD: Afember, Investment Committee, American Institute of Mining,

[crallurgical & Petroleum Engineers, 1964-65.

rR oF: Harvard Club of New York; American Institute of Mining, Metal-

‘gical & Petroleum Engineers; New York Society of Security Analysts.
ITE the violence which has from time to time punctuated

events since 1940, my life has been relatively little touched
\fy four Army years were spent quietly in the Medical Corps

I served as a medical supply officer and as a hospital mess
— most of the time in the Texas No Man’s Land. There

bombardment or gunfire until I was released from active
1 became involved in the battle for survival in Wall Street.
start, I spent six years, beginning in 1946, writing for a
stock market letter, circulated by an investment research
ion, Mecting regular publication deadlines made for a
stence, calling, as it did, for investment words of wisdom
ic intervals. However, after six years, the business of
out ideas but never knowing whether or not they were
spted or rejected became too much of a mental barrier
ved into the investment counsel business where it 1S
_ sce the (favorable) results of one’s research efforts.

s period, I learned the hazards of speculation the hard

[ 1054 ]

Np NRT REM INE Dap
cen Ot STN near epee tate eeeeegcentpnanampnteterireiinese nore

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

way. I ended this phase of my existence by marrying my broker
and since have had no regrets about having decided to kecp the

commissions in the family.
Since 1952 I have devoted most of my time, not earmarked for

family, looking for investment opportunities, especially in mining
and metallurgy, for clients of an investment counsel firm. The
search has taken me over much of the United States, Canada and
Europe. I have usually returned from abroad convinced that the
best investment opportunities are still provided by the U.S. economy.
Home life has had all the complications normally associated with
the activities of an energetic wife and three growing boys. Commut-
ting on the New Haven Railroad is something of an adventure and
I have become involved in Boy Scouts, P.T.A., and all the other
trappings of suburban living. Probably my energies over the next
several years will go largely to accumulating the wherewithal to
pay the mortgage and to provide for the exposure of my children
to whatever educational opportunities they are capable of grasping.
Though I am not desirous of a “return to the womb,” I confess
to regrets with respect to some of the changes in our way of life
that have occurred in the last twenty-five years. For example, I am
(while conscious of the new vistas opened thereby) distressed by
the advent of the electronic computer, and by each successive more
complex and probing generation thereof, since it seems to me that
these devices have taken some of the romance and mystery out of
everyday life. I don’t particularly like modern architecture with
its functional construction norms of our youth. There seems to me
to be a low common denominator limiting the quality of much of
today’s cultural, artistic and literary experience. The political scene
is discouraging — particularly with respect to the calibre of many
who offer themselves for public service. I didn’t always (often I
did) approve of the policies of our late Classmate and President,
but his character, dedication and intellect stand out in an area where
mediocrity seems to me often to be the rule. I think it all adds up
to a feeling that individuality and nonconformity are being buried
in our organization society. If all this seems pessimistic, it may be
that I have not yet adjusted to the idea that a quarter century has
passed. In fact, there is much to be happy about in the ‘6o's and
I am really quite optimistic and look forward with great relish to

the next twenty-five years.

[ 1055 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

WARREN HELSHAM RADFORD

 

HOME apprEss: 811 San Diego Rd., Berkeley, Calif.

oFFice AppRESS: Rex Whitaker Allen & Associates, 259 Geary St., San Francisco,
Calif.

prepareD AT: Christs College, Christchurch, New Zealand.
YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1937-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; B,ARCH,, 1943.

marriep: Georgia Moore Flye, April 11, 1953. cutLoren: Geoffrey Warren,
Nov. 18, 1954; Catherine Howard, Dec. 16, 1961.

occupation: Architect; associate in firm of Rex Whitaker Allen & Associates.

MEMBER oF: American Institute of Architects; Richmond Yacht Club; Sierra
Club.

GRADUATION from the Harvard Graduate School of Design
was followed by OCS at Yale and commissioning in the Air Force,
then assignment to the Army Airways Communications System.
Overseas I was in the C.B.I. Theatre, including a year in China and
finishing up with four months on Norfolk Island (south of New
Caledonia), as a liaison officer with the RNZAF. This post made
possible the unique experience of becoming acquainted with the
few remaining descendants of Fletcher Christian —so intriguing,
in fact, that it’s a place we talk about returning to some day — to
retire?

Architectural career began in Denver, followed a year later by
migration to San Francisco, as a result of becoming fascinated by
that city during a vacation, Having chosen for my wife a native of
Piedmont, having built a house for ourselves in the Berkeley Hills
overlooking the Bay, and having become licensed to practise in the
State, I now consider myself a Californian, Since I have contributed
a share of houses and schools to the landscape, I am, for the present,

devoting all my time to the design of hospitals, a challenging field
growing in technical complexity.

[ 1056 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

The personal demands of an expanding practice (as in any pro-
fession) require liberal doses of recreation for ourselves and children,
and we find that weekend skiing and vacation back-packing in the
high country of the Sierra to be completely rejuvenating. We sail
our Rhodes 19 on the Bay all year round — a fortunate antidote for
the inevitable automation and urbanization of living in a metropolis.
Berkeley, however, is a compensation — the intellectual stimulation,
the liberal cause (even the barefoot student) help in bypassing the
tides of suburbia and its mores.

JUSTIN JACOB RADIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 345 E. 56th St., New York 22, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Connell Bros. Co., Ltd., 800 Second Ave., New York 17, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940.

MaRRIED: Ethel Louise Fortune, Oct. 3, 1948.

occuPATION: Export-import; manager, New York office, Connell Bros, Com-
pany, Ltd.

GEOGRAPHICAL moves seem to characterize the last twenty-five
years. I did a year of graduate work at the University of Mary land
while under an internship program with the Bureau of Prisons,
stationed at a federal institution for juvenile federal offenders. Then
a wartime stint with its normal changes of assignment, mostly as a
shavetail lieutenant in the Air Transport Command,

In 1947 I joined an old-line export-import firm headquartered
in San Francisco, and spent the succeeding years for various periods
in San Francisco and South America — principally Puerto Rico,
Venezuela, Peru — and now New York. One side accomplishment
in setting up in maybe fifteen or eightcen different residences is the

[ 1057 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ability to visualize with unerring accuracy and speed whether
drapes will fit—and one side prejudice is packing and moving
companies.

Having been barricaded on occasion in the rise and fall of Latin
governments, it seems to me that one of our country’s real plusses
is the firm civilian control and direction of the military — something
I suppose we rarely think of. On the other side of the coin is the
realization of the enormously complex problems we face overseas
on an individual and national level in presenting and implementing
our philosophy of government and the good life.

LAURENCE INGRAM RADWAY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Occom Ridge, Hanover, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 303 Thornton Hall, Dartmouth College, Hanover, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Staten Island Academy, Sraten Island, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: SB, magna cum laude, 1940; 1A. 19435
MPA. (Univ, of Minnesota), 1943; AM. (Harvard Univ.), 1948, PH.D.
(ibid.), 1950, A.M. Hon, (Dartmouth Coll.), 1959.

Marptep: Patricia Ann Headland, Aug. 20, 1949. CHILDREN: Robert Russell,
Nov. 25, 1943 (by previous marriage); Carol Sinclair, Oct. 16, 19515 Mich-
ael Porter, Dec. 14, 1953; Deborah Brooke, Nov. 5, 1956.

HARVARD SON: Robert Russell Radway, ’65.

occupation: College professor, Department of Government, Dartmouth Col-
lege.

orice HELD: Chairman, Government Department, 1959-62; director, Com- _
parative Studies Program, since 1963; president, New England Political
Science Association, 1964-65; civilian aide to the Secretary of the Army,
since 1962; professor of foreign affairs, National War College, 1962-63;

member, board of advisers, Industrial College of the Armed Forces, 1958~
61.

MEMBER OF: Council on Foreign Relations, American Political Science Asso-

[ 1058 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ciation; International Political Science Association, American Society for
Public Administration.

PUBLICATIONS: Soldiers and Scholars: Military Education and National Policy,
Princeton University Press, 1957; “Military Behavior in International Or-
ganization,” in S. P. Huntington (ed.), Changing Patterns of Military
Politics, The Free Press, 1963; co-author, Discussion at Bellagio: The
Political Alternatives of Development, American Universities Field Sraff,
1964; articles and reviews in various journals.

IT is still easy to remember how strongly Washington tugged at
me in the climactic days before and after our graduation. Only
the slightest nudge was needed (actually, it was some work for
the old Harvard Guardian that did the trick) to deflect me from
law school to a program that aimed straight at the public service.
So I spent one long, cold winter studying public administration at
the University of Minnesota, and a second year with other pre-
bureaucratic pirates on the banks of the Potomac. In one way or
another — as student, teacher, researcher, practitioner, or just plain
hobbyist — my interests have focused on government and public
affairs ever since.

Two-thirds of my military service was spent commuting across
Brooklyn on the Sea Beach Express, one-third sailing across the
Atlantic on a cargo ship that had been converted to carry troops,
POWs, and brides. By 1946 the private sector looked considerably
more appealing that it had in 1940. My thought was to study govern-
ment rather than practise it. Back, therefore, to Cambridge to pre-
pare for a teaching career.

Those who should know say that the postwar years were a kind
of golden age for graduate work at Harvard. In my own experience
as a student and teaching fellow, I encountered an impressively
high proportion of the men who have since become good friends
and eminent colleagues. Let it be recorded that I also met and
married a Wellesley girl who shared my distaste for bridge and
my fondness for New England, academic life, the Democratic Party,
and other articles too numerous to mention.

I left Cambridge at long last, partly because Dartmouth offered
$100 more than Harvard, partly because I had already won the
door prize that our Twenty-fifth Anniversary committee is about
to bestow for “most academic degrees earned. ”

In the years since 1950 I have lived in Hanover, taking leave for
research when possible, aging imperceptibly in the crisp northern
air, drinking an increasingly dry martini before dinner, playing

[ 1059 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

less tennis and squash (and far less poker or chess) than I would
like. A milestone was passed when the younger children became
Dartmouth rooters. This did not happen to the oldest one, who
is expected to get his degree from Harvard in 1965 and is quite
indifferent to games.

On work. 1 got interested in national defense while serving an
apprenticeship in the Bureau of the Budget in 1941-42. This has
continued to be my main research field. I offer courses on bureauc-
racy, the conduct of American foreign relations, and political
theory. Candor compels the confession that I have also become an
academic committeeman of monstrous proportions. How many
other living Americans can claim to have made a net reduction in
their committee time by transferring to the Pentagon? This I
acomplished in 1963.

Outside interests, Travel and politics. | have been to Europe on
research, to North Africa for a vacation, to the Middle East on
administrative errands, and to the Orient as a fellow traveler with
the National War College. Most of these trips, sad to say, have
been frustratingly rapid. Political activity has included about every-
thing except a try for major office. I almost ran for the Senate
against Styles Bridges in 1960 but decided 1 had not the time nor
the money for such a hopeless cause.

Unorthodox views. I’ve just discovered that 1 don’t have any.
Back in 1936 a classmate on the far left told me 1 would grow into
an insipid liberal who might occasionally flip the pages of the New
Republic for inspiriation. Not a bad prediction except for the
magazine! To say that Hubert Humphrey i is one’s kind of politician
scarcely qualifies as an unorthodox view in this day and age. Peering
farther w ithin, I perceive nothing more exotic than a kind of creep-

ing crustiness which is probably a normal or even healthful phenom-
enon at this state of growth.

[ 1060 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARRISON McKINLEY RAINIE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 91 Tenth St., Garden City, Long Island, N.Y. 11530.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Stewart, Dougall & Associates, 405 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Howe High School, Billerica, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; A.M., 1941; M.B.A., 1947.

MarrigED: Priscilla Loomis Damon, Feb. 18, 1950. CHILDREN: Harrison Mckinley,
3d, July 6, 1951; Shepard Damon, July 6, 1952; Priscilla Alden, May 20,

1957.
occupation: Management consulting, vice-president and member, board of

directors, Stewart, Dougall & Associates.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, 1963-64, chairman, Public Relations
Committee, 1960-64, Association of Consulting Management Engineers,
member, board of directors, Garden City Community Fund, 1963-64,
Cordo Chemical Company, 1955-64; seminar leader, American Manage-
ment Association, 1960-63.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Harvard Business School Club of
New York; University Club of New York, Atlantic Beach Club, Atlantic
Beach, Long Island.

MY prognosis according to the 1940 Class Album was basically
music and specifically concert singing. What changes have taken
place!

After graduation in 1940, I spent one more year as a music major
and was granted a Master’s degree with full intention of pursuing
music as a career. Then Uncle Sam took a hand in my life. While
waiting to be drafted, I spent a few months in Hartford, Connecti-
cut, working for Pratt & Whitney Aircraft. This was my first
exposure to the business world and I found it fascinating. Before
long, the draft board found out where I was and called me to serve.
After spending two years at Aberdeen Proving Grounds as an in-
structor in the Ordnance Department of the Army, IT made the
singular mistake of volunteering for duty in Brazil where I hoped

[ 1061 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

I could hold the beachhead at Copacabana. Instead I found myself
in Italy with the Brazilian Expeditionary Force, where I spent two
unusual years in a liaison capacity. I “liaisoned” satisfactorily
enough, apparently, to receive two decorations from the Brazilian
government in addition to the Good Conduct Medal.

Returning to the States, courtesy of sufficient military points, |
was fortunate enough to be accepted in the first civilian (Amen!)
class at the Business School. After receiving an M.B.A. in June,
1947, I tried to combine my music and business educations in looking
for a job, but discovered that limited opportunities existed. Since
my primary interest at the Business School centered in marketing,
I searched this field and joined Stewart, Dougall & Associates,
marketing consultants. I have been associated with this firm for
seventeen years and thoroughly enjoy the work.

Having settled down in a job, I considered domesticity and mar-
riage occurred in 1950, Within a respectably short time, there
were three little Rainies, two of whom are candidates for Harvard,
and one, hopefully, to marry a Harvard man.

Extracurricular activities currently include a little golf, lots of
music at home (listening and performing with the family), Little
League baseball, activities with the Boy Scouts, as well as com-
munity and church commitments.

My exposure to Harvard and my classmates, both in college and
the Business School, has had a distinct influence on my personal and
business life. Despite the fact that there are continuous requests
for money, I still have a strong loyalty to the University.

[ 1062 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD CAMERON KIRK READ

Frere ng

*

  

HOME ADpRESS: 318 Kenmore Rd., Douglaston 63, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Freeport Sulphur Co., 161 E. 42d St. New York, N.Y. 10017.

PREPARED AT: Haverford School, Haverford, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarRRiED: Louise Geary, Nov. 13, 1944. CHILDREN: Cameron, Sept. 15, 194$;
John Conyers, May 21, 1947; Edith Coulson, July 22, 1949.

HARVARD SON: Cameron Read, ’67.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Franklin Read, 3d, "36.

occupation: Mining; director of public relations.

OFFICES HELD: Assorted posts in various local civic and fund-raising organiza-
tions.

MEMBER OF: The Coffee House, New York City; Harvard Club of New York;
Overseas Press Club, New York City, Douglaston Club, Douglaston, N.Y.

pusLications: Articles in The New York Times Magazine; This Week, Col-

. liers; Mademoiselle, Sports Illustrated, Woman’s Day, Natton’s Bustness,
etc. -

FRESH from majoring in The Harvard Lampoon, 1 made an aus-
picious start in the Real World by going to work for Metro-
Goldwyn-Mayer in California as a scriptwriter. In this venture,
which was part of a program founded by Irving Thalberg to infuse
new college-type blood in the flicker industry, I was accompanied
by Classmate Dave Sheppard and one man each from Yale and
Princeton. The job paid a cool $50 a week and, in toga there
was nothing you couldn’t buy for that kind of moncy. My speculty
was Tarzan pictures, and I was on a first-name basis with every
chimpanzee on the back lot.

When the war came, the Harvard background shot me through
Officer Candidate School at such a rarefied level that 1 was dewy-
nated an egg-head and bundled off to interminable training asign-
ments in the Signal Corps at Camp Crowder, Missouri, In 1994.

[ 1063 ]

_______ |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

during my final leave before going to the ETO, Louise Geary (whose
sister Mary is the wife of Gil Aertsen, also ’40) consented to
matrimony in Miami Beach, and I had a handsome son awaiting
me when I returned from Europe i in 1945.

With my strong background in Tarzan scenarios, I had little
trouble in convincing the A. T. & T. Company’s public relations
department that | was their man. The next stop was Hill & Knowl-
ton, a major New York public relations firm, where I was for some
years managing editor of the American Iron and Steel Institute’s
magazine Steelways, in addition to working on a number of in-
dustrial accounts. About nine years ago I joined Freeport Sulphur
Company where I am presently director of public relations. Among
the pleasures of the post are frequent trips to New Orleans, where
you can reach me at Brennan’s Restaurant, and, until 1960, occasional
trips to Havana and Cuba’s Oriente Province where Freeport had
a big nickel-cobalt project under way. Unfortunately, the Pearl
of the Antilles got lost in somebody’s beard.

Spasmodic free-lance writing — mostly of a light sort and mostly
for magazines — has been a sideline all along. One of these days
I would like to be rich and famous in the field. But then I keep
thinking my tennis is going to get better, too.

In the cosmic effort to shake peaches out of the Tree of Life,
Louise and I have been especially rewarded by three fine offspring
who have filled our house with trophies and our hearts with pride.
Bunk (19) is a sophomore at Harvard, John (18) will be a freshman
this fall, and Edith (15) is at Kent School in Connecticut.

In spite of all this, well-meaning friends — a quarter of a century
after the fact — still lead people up to me and say, “Meet the man
who won the Wellesley Hoop Race.” My God, is that to be the
high watermark of my career?

[ 1064 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARRY DALE REBER, JR.

Sal wee -~ mane oy

   

HOME ADDRESS: 350 E. Maple St., Fremont, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Reber & Reber, Attorneys, 20 E. Main St., Fremont, Mich.
PREPARED AT: Fremont High School, Fremont, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B. 1940; LL.B. (Univ. of Michigan),

1948.
MmarrigeD: Mary Lowery, March 3, 1944, Beaufort, S.C. critpren: Cynthia Jcan,

Oct. 31, 1948; Polly Tracy, Dec. 26, 1950; John Lowery, Jan. 12, 1954.

occupATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: City attorney, City of Fremont, since 1956; member, board of
directors, Fremont Public Schools, since 1963; member, executive commit-
tee, board of directors, Fremont Mutual Insurance Company, since 1944;
member, board of directors, secretary and general counsel, Lakeshore Club
Apartments, Inc., East Lakeside Corporation, West Lakeside Corporatian,
Dri-Slide, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Ramshorn Country Club; Caberfae Ski Club; 27th Judicial Bae
Association; State Bar of Michigan.

ALONG with the rest of the Class, I spent the first half of the
1940's involved with the war effort. My particular niche was with
the Navy in the South Pacific, Returning to civilian life as a
lieutenant commander, I entered the University of Michigan Law
School. Although this had been my original intention upon gradua-
tion from Harvard, I must admit I had some misgivings about
spending a couple of more years in schoo] at what I then considered
the very advanced age of twenty-seven. Hindsight establishes
that it was probably the correct decision and now, of course. I
marvel that I came to such a decision when I was so young, t-
experienced, etc.

I settled in Fremont, a small town in roughly the west center af
Michigan where I had, incidentally, been born and raised. Fremont
claims to be the baby food capital of the world, and I have had the

[ 1065 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

privilege of observing and taking part in the rather spectacular
growth of our fair city, even though not directly associated with
Gerber Baby Food, our principal industry, which is the cause of it
all,

Aside from the general practice of law, which any lawyer will
tell vou constitutes a helluva lot more than a forty- -hour weck,
1 have been kept busy with family and community activities. To
battle the waistline and keep my muscles from becoming totally
atrophoid, 1 play an inconsistent and mediocre game of golf and
ski about the same way.

Like everything else with me, understanding of Harvard and the
associations there are made more meaningful with the passage of
time. 1 wish I had taken more advantage of what Harvard had

to offer, but, of course, this is only the familiar story of knowing
then what you know now. In retrospect, even the stately trees in
the Yard become significant when one has to plant trees in his own
lawn in order to get any shade. Located somewhat distant from
the population center, I have had little occasion for regular associa-
tion with classmates, Nevertheless, I have not lost touch completely

as there has been some correspondence and an occasional visit. I

should have taken the time to have kept a little more in touch during

the past twenty-five years, and 1 will earnestly resolve to do so
during the next twenty-five.
At this stage of the game, I still believe the world is a good place

in which to live and that the challenge and opportunity for the
children of the Class of 1940 will be greater than ever.

EDWARD WALDO REED

 

HOME ADDRESS: 63 Greenwood Lane, Waltham, Mass

[ 1066 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Co., Wayland Laboratory, Advanced Development,
Wayland, Mass.

PREPARED aT: Taunton High School, Taunton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1941. DEGREE: A.B., C4772 laude, 1940( 41).

MaRRIED: Marian Davis Henry, Nov. 10, 1942. CHILDREN: Fdward Walde, Jr,
Oct. 22, 1943; Timothy Henry, Sept. 1, 1947; Bradford Hale, May a2, suse,
Margaret Parker, April 26, 1954, Christopher Henry, Aug. 8, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHERS: William Robinson Reed, ’29, George Hall Reed, °38.

OccUPATION: Manager of administration and planning for Advanced Develop-
ment Laboratory, Surface Radar and Navigation Electronics Operanon,
Raytheon Company.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, William Reed & Sons Company
(Taunton Daily Gazette), since 1960; director, Waltham Branch, YVICA,
since 1958; Pack and Troop chairman, Boy Scouts of America, Pack and

Troop 47, 1953-56.
MEMBER OF: First Parish Unitarian-Universalist of Waltham, Appalachian

Mountain Club,

THERE is nothing like the moment of truth. I am sure thae 1
have a lot of company among my fellows who had convinced them-
selves that the months of careful thought to what would be said
about the last twenty-five years had this writing long since done
until with pen in hand all the thoughts vanished into thin air. For
our Class and the place it was thrust into in history, I must be
close to par for the course. Four years in the Army with a trip
to Europe, which at least after May of 1945 had some pleaunt
aspects, started me off. I must confess that I cannot think of a
graduate school which could come anywhere near teaching the
facts of life with more lasting force.

The four years after my release included successive jobs in ad-
ministration as a merchant, factory office manager, and production
control supervisor, accumulating a family of three, and in my spare
time learning the mysteries of being a carpenter, mason, electrician,
and plumber (housing was scarce, so we built our own). We moved
back to the Boston area in 1951 when I joined the Raytheon Com-
pany, where I have been busy with administration and planning
for advanced engineering groups ever since, T must conclude my
track has been pretty mundane. Two more children completed our
family. After a headlong start which had to slow down, my wile
and I have managed to contribute to civic groups, Scout, church,
and the YMCA over the years. We have our eldest son as a senior
at Springfield College, where his inclination and talents are a gest
match, Our second son we hope will have the opportunity te carry

[ 1067 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

on the Harvard tradition for the fourth generation starting in 1965,
For the rest ume will tell,

My most compelling thought is to express my eternal gratitude
for the opportunity of gaining my first measure of maturity at
Harvard. In addition, after observing first hand the ultimate in
human misery, I would like to add my small voice to the praise of
our most illustrious fellow, John F. ‘Kennedy, who made such a
magnificent contribution to the recognition and uplift of the world
individual. 1 cannot help but think that we in the Class of 1940
are indeed fortunate to reach our Twenty-fifth Reunion with a
most significant challenge — that those of us who may be privileged
to look back on the second twenty-five be able to count others

who have met the challenge and left the example such as he and
‘Tom Healey have done for us.

PHILIP LORING REED, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 375 Gay St., Westwood, Mass

OFFICE apprEss: Marriner & Co., Inc., 600 Broadway, Lawrence, Mass
PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: 3.B., 1940.

MarRIED: Marie Elizabeth Reece, Nov. 15, 1941. cHiLpReN: Philip Loring, 3d,

March 22, 1943 (m. Jane Hutson, January, 1964); Marie Elizabeth, 24,

d
Sept. 6, 1944; Sarah Shattuck, 3d, Aug. 16, 1946; Michael, Oct. 27, 1952-
GRANDCHILD: Amanda Jane Reed, Oct. 6 1964

Haagvarp son: Philip Loring Reed, 3d 66. ,

HARVARD BROTHERS: Samuel McCobb Reed, "41; William Maxwell Reed, 2d, “46
Howard Shattuck Reed, ’49, LLB, 53.

occuPaATION: Executive vice-president, Marriner & Company, Inc., wool top
manufacturers.

memaer oF: The Country Club; Dedham Country and Polo Club; Harvard
Club of New York,

[ 1068 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AFTER graduation sold soap for Lever Brothers until called to
active duty U.S. Navy, December, 1940. Served on destrovers
Married in Panama, November, 1941. Released from active duty,
November 1945. Sold soap for Lever Brothers while living in Cleve-
land, Ohio, till 1948. Returned to Boston, 1949, and joined Francis
Willey & Company, wool top manufacturers. Joined Kenneth
Marriner in forming Marriner & Company, Inc., in 19s2. At the start
it was somewhat of a struggle, but since then all has gone well.

As a Republican have helped several local and state candidates, and
these efforts have resulted in success about seventy per cent of the
time. About 1959 bought a run-down piece of property from
Vincent R. Bailey, ’40, when he moved out of town, After five
years of hard work have same and spend time raising wild ducks
when not traveling on business. Elder son married; Betty and | now
grandparents. Have a delightful daughter-in-law and granddauyhter,
Elder daughter to be married in June, at which time we will acquire

delightful son-in-law.

ARNOLD REGAL

 

HOME ADpDRESS: 19§4 Taylor St., San Francisco, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1515 Sloat Blvd., San Francisco, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B,, 1940.

MarrieD: Mary Louise Schulz, 1945 (divorced tyg8); Anita Helen Sith, oss
CHILDREN: Stephen, Sept. 30, 1946; Andrea Michacla, Mav rf, tyoy, Vier
ander Paul, Aug. 15, 1962.

HARVARD BROTHER: Paul Lewis Regal, ’38.

OCCUPATION: Executive sceretary, Meat Dealers Axsociation = publ: felines
and labor relations.

[ 106g ]

__——. | ——

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

orrices HELD: Secretary, Bay Area Meat Council, member, Bay Area Meat
Cutters Health and Welfare Fund, member, California Joint Apprentice-

ship Commuttee.
ON Class Day I heard the newsboy at Harvard Square shout that
the Giants had lost three straight games and that Paris had fallen
to the Germans. Well, here was a decision which my sixteen years
of education and especially the last four years at Harvard would
not let me ponder too long. The Giants didn’t need the help that
_the Allies did, so I threw in my Jot with the latter. No later de-
cisions were ever that easy. ‘

I stayed with the Navy for the next five years and helped the
Marines make landings on numerous combat beaches from Guadal-
canal to Iwo Jima. I gained in experience and self-esteem (by
reason of too frequent wartime promotions), if not in wisdom and
insight.

Since I had considerable experience in seaman’s pursuits, it was
not difficult to qualify as navigator and Jater captain on several of
the larger tuna vessels operating in Southern California and in South
and Central America. The fishing business was fairly lucrative,
so I drifted into the ownership of one of these vessels, and subse-
quently, of a couple of shrimp vessels also. I remained in this
business until 1957.

During this time I learned a great deal about Central and South
Americans. This knowledge may be of some value, but I haven’t
as yet given to anyone the benefit of its worth. Perhaps one day
I shall.

During the last five or six years 1 have been executive secretary
of a Meat Dealers Association. Once every year or so there is a
minor crisis and I have to make a decision.

My hobbies are few. A little salmon or bass fishing now and then
or sailing in the Bay encompasses about all of them.

In twenty-five years there has been a great deal of progress in
the world, both spiritual and material, not a little of ic contributed
by Harvard men, and particularly those of the Class of 1940.

When I look back on the unspectacular success or spectacular
unsuccesses of my career, J find that I can hardly blame Harvard
for it. However, I hope in the next twenty-five years that I shall
be able to give more of myself to this progress than I have in the
past. If so I shall be a little more proud of my years at Harvard.

[ 1070 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DONALD HOWARD REGAL.

 

HOME ADDRESS: Box 44, Newton Lower Falls, Mass.

OFFICE ApprEss: Halle & Steiglitz, 111 Devonshire St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Milton High School, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1940.
OCCUPATION: Securities salesman,

DONALD THOMAS REGAN

 

  

HOME ADDRESS: 830 Amies Lane, Bryn Mawr, Pa.

OFFICE ADpRESS: Merrill Lynch, Pierce, Fenner & Smith, Inc., 7o Pine Se, New
York 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940,

MarrieD: Ann Gordon Buchanan, July 11, 1942. clitoreN: Donna Ann, April
8, 1943; Donald Thomas, Jr. May 24, 1946; Richard Willian Ose, ta
1949; Diane Gordon, April 19, 1953.

occupaTION: Executive vice-president and director, Merrill Lynch, Prerve,
Fenner & Smith, Inc., brokers and investment bankers.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, The Charles E, Merrill Trust; Merrill Lynch, Pure,

[ 1071 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Fenner & Smith, Inc, Foundation; Hahnemann Medical College and Hos
pital, 1957-60; member, Advisory Committee, Wharton School of Finance
and Commerce, University of Pennsylvania; member of various commit.

tees, New York Stock Exchange, National Association of Securities Dealers
and Investment Bankers Association of America,

member OF: Union League of Philadelphia; Army-Navy Club, Washington,
D.C.; Philadelphia Country Club; Down Town Association of New York.

INTENDING to pursue a legal career, I enrolled at the Law
School after graduation, but by November 1, 1940, the war clouds
and the draft made me decide to enlist in the officers’ candidate
class of the U.S. Marine Corps Reserve. That changed my entire
life. I became a regular Marine officer, spent time in Iceland, and
returned to the States after Pearl Harbor and the outbreak of war.

On July 11, 1942, I was married to Ann Gordon Buchanan of
Washington, D.C. to whom | have been happily wed ever since.
The Marine Corps separated us in the fall of that year, and I spent
the next three years in such heated places as Guadalcanal, New
Georgia, the Northern Solomons, Guam, and finally Okinawa.
Although nothing more than malaria had gotten me, by the time
the war ended I had had enough of a military career.

The big question for me, as for millions of others, in late 1945
was — where do I go? Law no longer interested me, teaching, a
government career, and the like had little appeal. By a very happy
chance, I heard of a training school that Merrill Lynch, Pierce,
Fenner & Beane was starting in Wall Street. It was designed for
those who wanted a career in finance. I liked that idea and, for-
tunately, was accepted for the school in early 1946.

Ever since then I have been with Merrill Lynch — in various
capacities— account executive in Washington, D.C., 1946-48;
assistant to the head of sales in New York, 1948-51; manager of the
Trading Department, 1952-55, resident partner in charge of the
Philadelphia office, 1956-60, vice-president in charge of administra-
tion and secretary, 1960-63; executive vice-president, 1964.

My data sheet indicates 1 have four children — what it doesn’t
show is how proud I am of them. My older daughter graduates in
June from American University where she majored in journalism;
my older son is completing his first year at the University of Penn-
sylvania’s Wharton School where he intends to major in finance.
We have the younger two still at home with us. Those who have
teen-agers know, therefore, that our life is not dull,

A career in finance has been rewarding to me in several ways.

[ 1072 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

It has been so from a personal monetary point of view, but it has
been equally rewarding as a challenge to keep abreast of the mulu-
faceted problems of international, national, and local finance. Thr
type of work can never be dull. Wall Street is a kalcidascope, just

recognizing the patterns 1s a task.
In addition, another aspect of finance has become mv avocation,

In 1961 I was elected a trustee of the Charles E. Merrill Trust. This

is a large charitable trust that donates to institutions in many fichds

particularly education, religion, and social welfare. Having served

in many fund-raising endeavors over the years, it is a great ex-

perience to be on the other side, able to give. Whoever firse said
it is more rewarding to give than solicit knew whereof he spoke.
It is extremely satisfying to investigate projects, select the more
deserving ones, and then see them flower under the stimulus of a
grant. This work has led to several other trusteeships, some fur
other charitable trusts, some for individuals and estates.

Although I work in the Wall Street area, I continue to live in
Bryn Mawr, Pennsylvania. The pull of the friendships and the
flavor of the countryside have made us loath to leave the Main
Line. Hence, I am a real long distance commuter. A briefcase and
a quiet seat on the train normally enable me to do more reading

and thinking than I could do in a busy office.
In summary, I am leading a challenging active life in a stimulating
profession. I have a fine family, good friends, and have had many

earthly rewards. I am happy with my life — content, but by no
means ready to retire, or even to sit on the sidelines.

[ 1073 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I940

MAURICE ALPHONSE REIDY, Jr.

 

appress: 479 Walnut St., Newtonville, Mass. 02160. °

appress: Maurice A. Reidy Engineers, 101 Tremont St., Boston, Mass
08,

n at: Newton High School, Newton, Mass. —

! COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREES: S.By 1940; S.M., I94I.

- Katharine R. Dempsey, Dec. 27, 1941. CHILDREN: Robert M., Jan.
943; Peter J., May 20, 1945; Gail F., April 3, 1947; Maurice Alphonse,
sept, 21, 1951; Edward M., Oct. 5, 1952; Joseph L., Nov. 15, 1953;
- L., Nov. 27, 1955; Brian G., Feb. 10, 1958; Philip C., July 23, 1959.
roTueERS: Francis Parker Reidy, ’45; Roger Patrick Reidy, °46, s.m.,

1: Enginecring, architectural; principal partner, Maurice A. Reidy
ers, consulting engineers specializing in all aspects of building
ction, |

p: Member, Zoning Board of Appeals, Newton, Mass. . (chairman,
61).

National Society of Professional Engineers; Harvard Society of

rs and Scientists; American Society of Civil Engineers (fellow),
Club of Boston; Rotary Club of Boston,

-FIVE years! The days and years have passed by in such
that I’m reluctant to attempt the evaluation which such
should evoke. However, I've had so much enjoyment

y about my classmates in previous Class Reports, I feel
igation to make a brief summary.

\Iy best girl of college days has turned out to be a
fe; encouraging, loyal and amazingly tolerant of all my
ncrasies. We've somehow managed to have our own
lation explosion” with seven sons and two daughters;
be more surprised than we are to find ourselves so
‘rounded. We are finding, as we go along, that the

[ 1074 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sometimes staggering problems of providing material necessities for

a large family are not nearly as difficult as finding time for the atten-

tion which each child needs. The old gag that “all our problems are
little ones” was entirely right at one point. We've noticed, however,
that as the children changed in dimensions so did their problems.
Now that the youngest is, at long last, starting the first grade in
school, we can see a little clear sky on the far horizon. At the time
of this writing we are sweating out college applications for the third
time. Hopefully, the oldest three will be in college this fall, the rest
are in junior high and elementary schools in Newton.

Carrer: After college, I continued at the Harvard Graduate School
of Engineering, S.M., 1941. Started work with Frederic R. Harris,
Inc., in New York, designing dry dock and other naval facilities.
Switched to aircraft design (Republic Aviation) in 1963. In 1946,
I joined my father in his practice of engineering in Boston. This
work developed, with the help of a brother, into a fascinating ac-
tivity involving principally the structural design of buildings of all
types. Supplementing this basic work were special consulting en-
gagements on appraisals, site development and as experts in litigation
in the fields of engineering design and construction. Dad participated
in the firm until shortly before his death in 1961. His greatest legacy
to me and my brother was his example of generosity, human under-
standing and professional leadership. Current work includes design
of a special radiation shield to house a particle accelerator used in
nuclear research, and preliminary site studies for what may become
the largest one-story building in New England. Recent projects of
special interest are structural renovations of two of Boston’s oldest
buildings: the Old Corner Book Store (1713) and the Old North
Church (1723). In recent years, many new factors have brought
challenging changes into both the professional and business aspects
of my firm’s work. Increased competitive pressure on the architects
with whom we work has increased the need for diversity in our
operations. At the same time, competition between the stecl, con-

crete, lumber and chemical industries for the construction dollar
has resulted in a wealth of new materials and techniques of design
and construction. In spite of the seemingly endless challenge, 1
know of nothing Id rather be doing and I look forward to the bese
work of my career.

Most of my contact with fellow alumni in Boston has been with
lawyers, rather than engineers. This results from My engagement as

[ 1075 ]

|
erg nh AE AAA ALLAN LALA AC ANTAL,

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

engineering consultant to lawyers concerned with problems in the
field of construction,

Cosvicrioxs: Over the past twenty-five years, I've arrived at
absolutely firm convictions about all manner of things — and found
to my dismay that “unforeseen conditions” soon required the sub-
stitution of new convictions. One conviction which has survived is

expressed in the proposition, “Man proposes; God disposes.”

FREDERICK VAN ORDER REILLY

 

MAILING appress: 50 Fillingham Drive, Rochester, N.Y.

BENJAMIN MAX REINHARDT

 

HOME apprEss: 4249 Bellingham Ave., Studio City, Calif.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 6842 Van Nuys Blvd., Suite 501, Van Nuys, Calif.
preparep at: Asbury Park High School, Asbury Park, N.J.

[ 1076 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938, DEGREE: LL.B., magna cum laude (Southwestern
Univ.), 1956.

MARRIED: Katharine Roulstone, June, 1942 (divorced 1961); Ruth Babrotf,
1961. CHILDREN: William Dennis, Oct. 25, 1943; Sally, Dec. 27, 1945, Dixie,

Jan. 27, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Attorney at law (trial attorney).

OFFICES HELD: Attorney, California State Psychological Association, president,
Northridge Hospital Foundation Board of Trustees, 1961-63; graduate in-
structor, medical rehabilitation, University of Southern California (School
of Physical and Occupational Therapy), 1947-51, national panel member,
National Arbitration Association; president, Welfare Planning Council,
Northwest Area, Los Angeles, 1963-65.

MEMBER oF: American Bar Association; National Trial Lawyers Association,
Legal-Science Society of America.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Psychologist in Court.”

CAREER: rgqo, advertising in New York including an enjoy able
stint with Arthur Murray dance studios! 1941, drafted into U.S
Army. 1942, commissioned a lieutenant in Medical Administrative
Corps, U.S. Army. Married Katharine Roulstone. 1943-46, served at
an Army general hospital as chief, Reconditioning Service, and as
company commander of a training unit. Promoted to captain. Son
Denny and daughter Sally born. Also attended University of Wis-
consin and Washington & Lee University in Virginia at taxpayers’
expense. 1946-56, daughter Dixie born 1948. I served as exccutive
officer, Medical Rehabilitation Service, at two VA hospitals (West
Los Angeles, California, where I supervised 120 therapists, and
Sepulveda, California, where I supervised forty-five persons).
Taught rehabilitation courses at University of Southern California
on graduate and undergraduate levels. Lectured in hospital re-
habilitation subjects at UCLA Medical School, School of Nursing,
etc. Attended law school at night for four and one-half years, got
LL.B. degree, magna cum lande, Southwestern University Law
School in Los Angeles. 1957, left VA hospital work to enter full-
time practice of law and happily involved in court trial work since
1957- 1961, divorced. Married Ruth Babroff. 1965, mv son Denny
scheduled to graduate from M.LT. in June, 1965. My daughter
Sally finishing her second year at State College, Northridge, Cali-
fornia. Youngest daughter Dixie planning to enter a college, Sep-
tember, 1965.

My travels — Las Vegas and Palm Springs occasionally, My
hobbies — golf, a few parties and fighting freew ay trathe. My: war
record — the Good Conduct ribbon and the American ‘Uheater of
Operations ribbon (the only “decorations” for a “hero” who spent

[ 1077 ]

memes: Mitek PERN en no SA Da AONE ON

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940
most of World War If at O'Reilly General Hospital, Springfield,

Missouri! ).
My social, political or religous convictions: I’ve never been a New
Dealer or a Great Society enthusiast. | abhor the ever-growing tend-
ency to look to the District of Columbia for our salvation and
shudder at the thought of a climbing federal debt we probably will
never liquidate. But in spite of this conservative approach, I’m

Dasically an optimist about our future. [ am embarrassed to report
my religious conviction is somewhat anemic.

FRED ARMSTRONG RICE

coe secs ye ener Sune
\

| hi ;

   

-

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5025 Dupont Ave., S., Minneapolis, Minn.
OFFICE apprEss: Nicollet Clinic, 2001 Blaisdell Ave. S., Minneapolis, Minn.
PREPARED AT: St. Cloud Technical High School, St. Cloud, Minn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: s.B., cum laude, 1940; M.D., 1943+
Marriep: Jane Irwin Newmyer, Radcliffe ’q2, Jan. 2, 1945. CHILDREN: Leonard

Singleton, May 27, 1950; Margaret Irwin, March 17, 1952; Murray New-
myer, March 7, 1954.

OCCUPATION: Physician, specializing in internal medicine.
OFFICES HELD: Clinical assistant professor of medicine, University of Minnesota

Medical School; formerly chief of medical staff, Eitel Hospital, Minneap-
olis, Minn.

MEMBER OF; American College of Physicians, a half-dozen other medical or-
ganizations.

ENGLISH A is long past, but [ still cannot approach a composition
with enthusiasm, even of so familiar a subject. Be that as it may,
I simply migrated to Boston with fifty or so classmates, and attended
HLMS,., graduating in December, 1943. After an abbreviated intern-
ship at the University of Chicago Clinics 1 entered the Army, and
saw the world — or at least the Pacific Ocean and the Island of

[ 1078 ]

eee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Guam. Then back to Chicago in the fall of 1946, and specialty
training in internal medicine. In 1949 I joined the Nicollet Clinic
in Minneapolis, and have been here since, enjoying medical practice,
though at times I find the multiple responsibilities piling up too much.

I have kept in touch with the ivory tower medicine through work
at the University Hospital here, where I regularly work in the
diabetes clinic, and sporadically perform other teaching duties. 1
have learned something about administration by being chicf of
staff at Eitel Hospital, and president of the clinic executive committce
at various times.

That is the framework of the past twenty-five years. To complete
the picture add my wife and three children, all equally adept at
finding projects to fill the leisure hours. We have managed to do
some traveling —to Mexico, to Canada and through much of
Western Europe, and are hoping to do more when the Reunion
activities are over.

Summers have been spent in water activities — swimming and
sailing at a nearby lake, and numerous home repair and redecorating
projects. The rest of the year leans heavily to academic activity,
since my wife is teaching at a girls’ prep school (Northrop Col-
legiate) and the two older children are in prep school. I have spent
the last two years as cubmaster for Murray’s pack, and have at
times been involved in various church activities and boards.

Politically conservative, I tried to prevent the suicide of the
Republican party, but somehow the wrong man was nominated.

Perhaps it is time to reactivate the John Reed Socicty.

[ 1079 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JOHN WEEKS RICE

 

E ADDRESS: 86 First Parish Rd., Scituate, Mass.

cE appRESS: John Hancock Mutual Life Insurance Co., 200 Berkeley St
Boston, Mass.

rep AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.
S IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940(41); ED.M. (Boston Univ.)

wep; Clarice McHenry, Nov. 28, 1940. CHILDREN; Judith McHenry,
farch 27, 1953; Benjamin McHenry, March 6, 1955.
RD BROTHER: Paul Moseley Rice, 15 (deceased).

ation: Life insurance; applied programming specialist (electronic data
ocessing).

HELD: President, Hingham Civic Chorus, 1951-52; vice-president,

oral Art Society, Scituate, 1958-59; president, Hingham Theater for
Idren, 1959-61.

oF; Choral Art Society; Hingham Theater for Children.

he reported on himself in the Fifteenth Report Rice has
d from personnel work to electronic data processing in the
mpany. Rice has been a programmer of various computers
ly 1956, and is now one of three programmers in the Data
 Department’s Applied Programming group, modifying
for the IBM 7074 and 1460, and writing new utility
He also does a roaring trade —as a part of the job —as
: for the eighty-odd programmers who turn out the produc-
for the 7074 and the 1400-series. He finds this side of the
)st interesting and satisfying, because it requires learning
yut someone else’s run to figure out what has gone wrong,
sa wonderful variety of runs that come to Rice’s atten-
gnosis and treatment.

ricular activities continue to be choral singing, church

the Hingham Theater for Children, for which Rice has
[ 1080 |

EARL ONTO LL EA NI NEES “A hwegrettrtae RY ee Rat eet demmeomsnt eyo 200 0% ETT EOI

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

directed plays or acted off and on for fifteen years: the last time,
just a year ago, he directed “Treasure Island” and at the last minute
John Silver came down with a dread disease, so Rice played the part
with the assistance of two off-duty actors who held up “idiot boards”
just out of sight in the wings. Fellow Glee Club members may be
interested to know that the small chorus to which Rice belongs was
assembled about eight years ago in the South Shore area and does
work that they would approve; for example, two years ago with a
small professional orchestra, the chorus performed Mozart's Requiem
rather commendably. In conclusion, Rice feels that though middle-
aged, he hasn’t been behaving very differently since the last Report.

JOHN REDNER RICHARDS

|

} -
:
|

|

 

HOME ADDRESS: 125 Sycamore Drive, Metairie, La. 70005. .

OFFICE ADDRESS: Shel] Oil Co., P.O. Box 60193, New Orleans, La. jo160,

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarRiED: Jeanne Worthington Black, March 18, 1943. CHILDREN: Jeanne Worth-
ington, Dec. 16, 1943 (7, Gerald Dennis, Nov. 1, 1963), Anne Conway,
March 3, 1947; Charles Redner, Dec. 24, 1948. Graxpcuito: Gcottrey Scot
Dennis, Sept. 11, 1964.

HARVARD BROTHER: C, Fred Richards, ’31.

OccUPATION: New Orleans public relations manager, Shell Oil Company,

MEMBER OF: Public Relations Society of America, American Petroleum Joes:
tute; Mid-Continent Oil & Gas Association —Louisiana-Arkansas Divs
sion; Louisiana Petroleum Council; Manhasset Bay Yacht (lib, Pars ard
Club of New York; Timberlane Country Club, Petroleum Club of New
Orleans.

QUITE frankly there is very little startling news to report from
the deep south, but will attempt to fill a short paragraph of twe.

[ 1081 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

At the time of our Twentieth Anniversary the Richards family
of five were located in Littleton, Colorado. However, during the
summer of 1960 Shell decided to transfer us to New Orleans where
we are at present. Another couple of years may see all of us com-
pletely recovered from the shock of moving from the mile-high
city to our home on the ridge (two feet above sea level) in Metairie,
Louisiana.

During our four and a half years in New Orleans there have been
many discussions, even arguments, relating to the South and its
problems, past and present. I do not believe this is either the
time or the place to express my personal views, but I will say that
the discussions have always been interesting and that I now find
myself better able to see both sides of the problem.

A few words of family news, Jeanne and I will have celebrated
our twenty-second wedding anniversary before Reunion and my
twenty-fifth with Shell rolls around in August. Jan was married
November 1, 1963, and made us grandparents in September. Anne,

a senior at Metairie Park Country Day School, is coping with

college applications, while Charles is up in Denver at Colorado
Academy.

NORMAN JOSEPH RICHARDS

 

HOME appress: 32 Sherburne Rd., Lexington, Mass,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 101 Tremont St, Boston, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: AB, cum laude, 1940.

MarRIED: Elizabeth Anne Manley, April 22, 1946. cHtpren: Anne M., Dec. 30,
1954; Norman J., Feb. 23, 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Randall Weston Richards, ’38,

occupation; Attorney-at-law; member of firm of Taylor, Foley & Sullivan.

{ 1082 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICES HELD: Member, Appropriation Committee, 1955-60, Board of Select-
men, 1960-63, Town of Lexington; captain, Union Boat Club, Boston,
1961-62.

MEMBER OF: Assorted civic and social groups.

EXCLUDING my participation in World War II (out in Novem-
ber, 1945), and the Korean War (out in February, 1954), the years
since 1940 have been most enjoyable. At the end of the Korean War
I had reached the rank of lieutenant colonel in the Field Artillery and
entertained the idea of being a career officer. Having completed law
school, the practice of law presented a challenge and it has proved
to be exciting and profitable.

In 1954, I became associated with the law firm of Taylor, Foley &
Sullivan in Boston and have continued with them to date. We are in
the general practice of law with enough trial work to make it most
interesting. A large part of my time is spent in real estate and pro-
bate work and the trial of real property and contract actions. My
family is still relatively young so that this has been an effective bar to
my feeling of advanced years. Of course there is all too little leisure
time but there have been a quick trip to Europe, weeks in Maine,
Bermuda, and weekends at the family retreat “Poverty Acres” at
Brewster on Cape Cod, plus a little fishing, hunting and just getting
away.

At first I was a “joiner” and soon found myself i in a myriad of
social, civic and fraternal groups and their activities, In the ‘last few
years I have resigned from most of these just to do those things I
want and to avoid the continual round of meetings. I find this latter
course to be far better. -

My home is about a mile from where I lived most of my life in
Lexington, Massachusetts. It is now a part of Boston’s suburbia and
I am subject to all the advantages and disadvantages of a metropoli-
tan existence. A Democrat politically with a drift to the liberal side,
my participation in politics has been confined to town offices which
are non-partisan. Except when put to the task of baring my soul for
the purpose of a Class Report, I must confess that I do little serious
thinking about what my Harvard years have meant to me. In the
Boston area it confers no special status, in my profession in the
last analysis it has little effect on professional competence especially
if you are not a product of the Law School, it certainly cannot re-
place the value of experience, but it has, I believe, given me a more
tolerant attitude toward the position of others in all matters as well

as a glimpse at least of the higher goals in life.

[ 1083 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Er rata e]

DAVID RICHARDSON

 

‘ME ADDRESS: 3338 Dent Pl., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20007,

FICE appress: Agency for International Development, Washington, D.C,

SPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1940.

MARRIED.

avARD BroTHeRS: Arthur Welland Richardson, ’28 (deceased); Frederick L,
W. Richardson, 31; Francis Boot Richardson, ’34; Joseph Priestley Rich-
ardson, "35, B.ARCH., '42; Julian Hayden Richardson, "43.

vpation: Government service—economic development, acting director,
International Development Organizations Staff, AID.

MIBER OF: Signet Society; Harvard Club of New York,

a scp Nip IE IEE NEM

OM 1940 to 1943 I studied at Harvard Law School (one year) and
. Williams College summer seminar in Latin American history and
nomics, worked and traveled in Central and South America, in-
ding a year with the U.S. government office of the Coordinator
Inter American Affairs under Nelson Rockefeller as the CIAA
resentative in Colombia.
or the next three years (1943-46), I served in the U.S. Navy, as
ir combat Intelligence (ACI) officer and anti-submarine war-
(ASW) instructor. After the war, one year as a private
epreneur in a residential housing project, several months as a
nteer with Generai Henry Parkman working for the Citizens’
ymittee for the Marshall Plan. In April, 1948, I returned to
srnment service with the Marshall Plan in the Economic Co-
ation Administration (ECA), where I have remained for seven-
years working on economic recovery (Europe) until 1952 and
after on economic development for ECA’s successor organiza-
, Mutual Security Agency (MSA), Foreign Operations Ad-
stration (FOA), International Cooperation Administration

[ 1084 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

(ICA), and finally, since 1961, Agency for International Develop-
ment (AID).

THOMAS MURRAY RICHARDSON

sete Rept ee : egyptian tt

   
 

samen AMIN ANS IT SNE STENTS
% . oe

 

HOME AppREss: 28 Gower Rd., P.O. Box 921, New Canaan, Conn.

OFFICE AppREss: American Overseas Petroleum, Ltd., 485 Lexington Ave, New
York, N.Y.

prepareD aT: Rutherford Senior High School, Rutherford, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarRiED: Martha Josephine Monson, June 9, 1945. cH1Lp: David Dunster, April
22, 1949.

occupation: Assistant manager, Personnel Relations, American Overseas Petro-
leum, Ltd., an oil company engaged in exploration, producing and refining
in the eastern hemisphere.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of New Canaan; Knights of Columbus; National
Council of Catholic Men; National Association for the Advancement of
Colored People.

LOOKING back over twenty-five years has a tendency to startle an
individual and to summon regrets over many things not done. How-
ever, in my case, I believe the things I have done bring me far more
satisfaction than the regrets over the things I have not done. First,
and foremost in my thinking, is my great good fortune in persuad-
ing my college sweetheart to marry me. Ours has been a wonder-
ful life together, and seems to improve as the years go by. Secondly,
our lives are, to a great degree, wrapped up in our son David. We
are inordinately proud of the fine record he is achieving at Ports-
mouth Priory School, where he is now a sophomore, but even
prouder of the person he promises to be. To me, these are the must
important features of the past years.

Descending to the more mundane, for the moment, it appears that

[ 1085 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

I have spent the greater part of my “career” as a personnel man.
Harvard really didn’t prepare me for this, in the academic sense, for
when we went to college there were no concentrations in per-
sonnel management. However, I think it fair to say that the educa-
tion did not hamper me in my profession. I have worked for the
same company since graduation, and it is probable that I shall con-
tinue to do so until I retire. I still find the work fascinating, par-
ticularly since it involves extensive foreign travel and close associa-
tion with the problems of training and utilizing nationals of the less
developed countries who have relatively limited educational back-
grounds, There is a real satisfaction in contributing to their de-
velopment.

I suppose that I must be considered as something of a traveler.
In fact, this is being written in Bahrain, an island in the Persian
Gulf, which most of you have never even heard of, We lived in
Sumatra for a number of years and, in addition, I have traveled con-
siderably to other areas, as the job demanded. I reckon that I have
now circumnavigated the globe four times, plus additional jaunts to
such areas as Bahrain, Arabia, Turkey, Libya, Nigeria, Australia and
Furope. As so many of us did, I had four years’ war service, three
in the ETO.

I have no earth-shattering opinions about the conduct of world
affairs, the future of the nation, or the importance of a Harvard
education. I guess I should be considered as a sort of middle-of-the-
road optimist. I am looking forward to an early retirement when I
can change my line of activity to make a somewhat more useful
contribution to a society in which I firmly believe.

{ 1086 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SAMUEL BERNARD RICHMOND

 

HOME ADDRESS: 162 Crescent Ct., Englewood, N.]J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Graduate School of Business, Columbia University, New York,
N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; M.B.A. (Columbia
Univ.), 1948; pH.p. (ibid.), 1951.

MARRIED: Evelyn Ruth Kravitz, Nov. 26, 1944. CHILDREN: Phyllis Gail, Jan. 31,
1948; Douglas Emerson, June 1, 1950, Clifford Owen, June 30, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Professor of economics and statistics, Graduate School of Bus-
iness, Columbia University.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Section on Training, American Statistical Association,
1962; visiting lecturer, University of Buenos Aires, 1964; visiting lec-
turer, Economics-in-Action Program, since 1962, visiting associate profes-
sor, Operations Research Group, 1958-59, Case Institute of Technology;
‘visiting assistant professor, Fordham University, 1951-52; consultant to:
E. I. du Pont & Company, since 1959; Intercontinental Marketing Services,
since 1953; Thomas J. Lipton, Inc., since 1963; El Al Israel Airlines (and
other governmental and semi-governmental agencies in Israel), since 1961;
US. Department of Commerce, Economic Evaluation of the Supersonic
Transport Aircraft, 1964; U.S. Federal Aviation Authority, Study of Fu-
ture Flight Manpower Needs, 1964; New York Housing Authority, 1960,
New York Telephone Company, 1956; City of Dallas, Texas, 1953-54:
City and County of Denver, Colo., 1953-54; and various others; powder
and explosive inspector, U.S. War Department, 1942; chemist, U.S. Cus-
toms Laboratory, 1941. .

MEMBER OF: American Statistical Association; American Economic Association,
Operations Research Society of America; Institute of Management Science.

PUBLICATIONS: Statistical Analysis, The Ronald Press Company, New York, 2d

ed., 1964 (ist ed., 1957); Regulation and Competition in Air Transporta-

tion, Columbia University Press, New York, 1961; “Forecasting Air Pas
senger Traffic by Multiple Regression Analysis,” Journal of Air Law and

Commerce, 1955; “Interspatial Relationships Affecting Air Travel," Land

Economics, 1957; “Sampling in Marketing Research” (with others), Joter-

[ 1087 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

instructor, typed innumerable term papers and essays and one
doctoral dissertation, and, in addition, found the time and energy to
participate in a myriad of community activities, an interest which
she has retained till now. Her major community interest at present
is the local schools. Also, over the years my writing has benefited
much from the exercise of her keen editorial judgment.

Those of us who have lived to reach this Twenty-fifth Anniver-
sary have participated in an exciting and exhilarating, if not always
pleasant, period in history. We have had and we have a good life.
Our obligation today is to assure that tomorrow our children and

after them their children will also have the opportunity to make for
themselves good lives.

GEORGE ALVIN RICHTER

eT

  

     

HOME AbpREsS: 1479 Grasshopper Rd., Huntingdon Valley, Pa. ©
OFFICE appress: Rohm & Haas Co., 222 W. Washington Sq., Philadelphia, Pa.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: SB. 1940; s.M. (Massachusetts Inst. of

Technology), 1942.

marrizp: Louise Anne Jacobs, 1940. CHILDREN: Anne Marie, Nov. 9, 1940; Janis
Louise, Radcliffe 67, April 7, 1945.

occupation: Technical assistant to vice-president in charge of sales, Rohm &
Haas Company, manufacturers of chemicals and plastics,

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Harvard Club of Philadelphia;
Unired World Federalists.

PUBLICATIONS: Various patents in the polymer and synthetic fiber fields.

TO accordion-pleat a quarter century of one’s life into a few
paragraphs is a frightening project. Well, here goes!

With an S.M. diploma from M.LT. in hand, we journeyed
southward to Wilmington, Delaware, and vicinity where I spent

[ 1090 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nine years in research with the American Viscose Corporation.
During World War I, I was engaged in hush-hush work for the
NDRC. . . every day in a little laboratory with locked doors.

In 1951 I joined the research department of the Rohm & Haas

Company, and we moved to the northeast suburbs of Philadelphia.
I am presently involved in liaison activities with the Food and
Drug Administration . . . no longer cloistered in the ivory tower of
research. I now commute by motor scooter (Lambretta) and train
to Philadelphia and Washington.

We have enjoyed watching our two girls, Anne and Janis, grow
up. Anne is artistic and quite an organizer. She was editor of the
Abington High School newspaper, graduated with high standing
from Carnegie Institute of Technology (painting and design) and
joined the Peace Corps. She has been teaching art and English in
Livingstonia, Malawi, Central Africa, for almost two years. When
she finishes her two-year tour of duty in December, Anne plans to
spend about three months coming home by way of India, Japan and
other eastern countries.

Weare also proud of Janis who was editor of the literary magazine
of Abington High School, graduated first in a class of almost 700
and is now attending Radcliffe on a National Merit Scholarship.
She plays the flute in the Harvard-Radcliffe Orchestra and is
majoring in social relations. About a year ago Janis toured Russia
and other countries behind the Iron Curtain with a group of stu-
dents traveling mainly by Micro-bus.

Louise and J are active in the United World Federalists, an organ-
ization which has as its goal World Peace through World Law by
strengthening the United Nations. We are deeply concerned about
the chauvinistic and suicidal attitude of people in many countries,
including the United States, in the face of the great challenge thrust
upon humanity by recent scientific achievements. We question the
maturity of people who deal in obsolete absolutes and who are com-
fortable only when self-righteously defending the status quo.

We are a traveling family. Louise and I have been to Europe
three times, Anne and Janis twice. Janis also traveled to California
with the Abington High School Band to march and play in the
Tournament of Roses Parade. We have come to the conclusion that
people throughout the world have substantially the same motiva-
tions, fears and sources of satisfaction that we Americans have. As
groups, they are neither “good guys” nor “bad guys” compared to
us. They react to conditions of environment in about the same way

[ 1091 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

we do, To make “moral” generalizations with respect to differences
among people is a dangerous and profitless pastime.

We consider ourselves religious in the broad sense but not
organizationally so. We deplore the past failures of organized
religion to lead civilization toward maturity and are watching with
interest recently increased efforts by organized religion to correct
this deficiency,

Our more frivolous activities include tennis, skiing, dancing and
the theatre, but definitely not bridge.

MATTHEW DONALD RUTHERFORD RIDDELL

 

HOME AppREess: 2130 Fir St,, Glenview, Ill.
OFFICE appRess: Greeley & Hansen, Engineers, 14 E. Jackson Blvd., Chicago, Ill.
PREPARED AT: University High School, Urbana, Ill.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: 5.8., magna cum laude, 1940; 8.M. IN
SAN ENG, 1946.
Marrigp: Dorothy Jane Williams, Oct. 2, 1948, cHtLoreN: James Donald, July
3, 1949; David Williams, May 21, 1951; Ann Rutherford, June 25, 1956.
occupation: Partner in firm of Greeley & Hansen, Engineers — consulting sarii-
tary and hydraulic engineers.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman, St. David’s Episcopal Church, Glenview, Ill.

Memer oF: American Society of Civil Engineers; American Academy of Sani-
tary Engineers; American Water Works Association; Inter-American AS-
sociation of Sanitary Engineering, American Public Works Association;
Central States Water Pollution Control Association, Consulting Engineers

Association of Illinois, Chicago Engineers Club; Harvard Club of Chicago.
pustications: Occasional articles for technical journals,

COMPARED to the accomplishments of my more illustrious class-
mates, my career has been unspectacular. It has not, however, been
entirely devoid of achievement, nor has it been unrewarding. I can

[ 1092 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

take satisfaction, for example, in having been associated for the last

nineteen years with one of the best known and most highly respected

firms in the field of sanitary engineering. I can also take pride in
having had a part in the design of numerous engineering works

which have contributed, in some small measure at least, to im-

proving the health and well- -being of the communities affected.

There have also been opportunities to travel extensively, not only
in the United States but in Canada and South America as well and to
become acquainted with many others in my line of work. On the
home front, I have succeeded in remaining married for over sixteen
years to the same understanding, if not always long-suffering, wife
and have been blessed with three normal, healthy children.

The frequent travels associated with my work have prevented me
from becoming deeply involved in local affairs. I have, however,
found time to serve two three-year terms as a vestryman of the local
Episcopal Church. I have also just completed a four-year stint as
committee chairman of the Boy Scout troop to which my sons have
belonged.

There has been limited time along the way for the pursuit of
hobbies. Within recent years, however, I have indulged with more
enthusiasm than success in that form of nautical madness known as
“frostbiting.”

Politically, I have always considered myself a moderate. Within
recent years, however, the main stream of political thought has
veered so far from the middle of the channel that I now find myself
considerably right of center. As an engineer in private practice, I
have experienced more and more the pressures and competition of
big government, big business, and big unions. Unless this trend can
be arrested, it is my opinion that the small, privately-owned business
that has for so many years been the strength and backbone of our

economy will be forced from the scene and the ideal of free, private
enterprise as we have known it will be gone forever.

[ 1093 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ERIC RIDDER

 

HOME apprEss: Feeks Lane, Locust Valley, Long Island, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Journal of Commerce, 99 Wall St.. New York, N.Y. 10005.

PREPARED AT: Portsmouth Priory School, Portsmouth, R.1.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

marrieD: Ethelette Tucker, Nov. 29, 1939 (divorced 1954); Madeleine Graham,
June 15, 1955. CHILDREN: Eric, Jr., June 2, 1941; Susan Lane, May 29, 1943.

occupation: Publisher, Journal of Commerce.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, Ridder Publications, Inc., Twin
Coast Newspapers, Inc.; assistant treasurer, Northwest Publications, Inc.;
director, Seattle Times Company; chairman, 1960 New York World Trade
Week Committee; served on Fund-raising Committees of New York Pub-
lic Library, Cancer Fund, Arthritis & Rheumatism Fund, Portsmouth
Priory School Fund.

MEMBER oF: New York Yacht Club, Seawanhaka Corinthian Yacht Club,
Piping Rock Club; Racquet & Tennis Club; The Leash; India House;
Merchants Club; Beaver Dam Winter Sports Club; Royal Swedish Yacht
Club; Rainier Club.

MY working life, since leaving Harvard, has been spent entirely in

the newspaper business, except from 1942 to 1945 which I spent in

the U.S. Marine Corps — an interesting experience that I could have

done without. I have a few mementos of extracurricular activities
of which I am rather proud. I was awarded the Philippine Legion of
Honor with rank of commander; I have a Gold Medal for the 1952
Olympics in sailing; and in 1964 I skippered the Constellation, the
successful defender of the America’s Cup. My own view is that in
spite of the growth of Communism in various parts of the world,
life in the United States is constantly improving.

[ 1094 |

 
 
 

mpm eas Teena Te wecemnne $F

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALTER THOMPSON RIDDER

 
 
 

a

F

HOME ADDRESS: 4509 Crest Lane, McLean, Va.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ridder Publications, 700 National Theatre Bldg. Washington,
D.C.

PREPARED AT: Portsmouth Priory, Portsmouth, RI.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREE: S.B., 1940(39).

MARRIED: Marie S. Wasserman, May 22, 1948. CHILDREN: Natasha (deceased),
1949; Cary, Jan. 4, 1951; Stephanie, Nov. 28, 1951; Victor F., 2d, Jan. 27,
1953; Pamela, Sept. 16, 1955; David (deceased), 1957.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Blair Ridder, ’41.

occupation: Washington correspondent for the Ridder new Spapers.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Ridder Publications, since 1946, deputy director
of information, Economic Cooperation Administration, 1950-52; director,
Dear Publications, since 1960; treasurer, Children’s Hearing and Speech
Center, Washington, D.C.; trustee, United Negro Scholarship Fund and
Institute for Policy Study, both in Washington, D.C,

MEMBER OF: Metropolitan Club; Gridiron Club; Federal City Club, Nanonal
Press Club, all of Washington, D.C.; Sigma Delta Chi (national newspaper
fraternity); Aspen Institute.

PUBLICATIONS: Magazine and newspaper articles.

NEWSPAPERMEN, they say, lead such interesting lives and mect
such interesting people. That old cliché has, at least in my case, been
proven true. For most of the past twenty-five years I have worked as
a reporter here in Washington and on foreign assignments. I have
had the opportunity of meeting and talking to most of the historic
figures of our generation — Franklin Roosevelt, Hitler, Churchill,
De Gaulle, Adenauer, Khrushchev. Looking back on it about the
only ones | missed were Gandhi and Stalin. I have been seen at
most of the famous watering holes for journalists — the Ratfles Hotel
in Singapore, the Crillon bar in Paris, the National Hotel in Moscow,
the Press Club in Tokyo, but without, I must confess, achieving at

 

aie daha baad ale tsi Haale sate tl.

kon

[ 1095 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

any of them the amorous triumphs which generally crown the
efforts of fictional newspapermen at such places.

Out of the innumerable great stories that I have covered, some
stand out particularly in memory. Any press conference with
Franklin D. Roosevelt was the greatest free show on earth. (Our
classmate, Jack Kennedy, was good at them too, but his generally
lacked the informality of a Rooseveltian press conference.) Any
of the big battles of the war were great stories even though one
rarely saw the battle as a whole. (After a year in the Army, I
was booted out for deafness and went overseas as a War Correspon-
dent, mostly on the Western front.) The liberation of the con-
centration camp at Dachau was the most moving and affecting story
I've ever been on. That camp literally had to be seen to be believed.
Other wonderful stories were the changing atmosphere at Thomas
E. Dewey headquarters that night in 1948 as certain victory turned
into astonishing defeat, Harry S. Truman’s decision to go into
Korea, the firing of General MacArthur, Dick Nixon’s romp through
Russia, the fantastic trip of Khrushchev through the United States,
the agonized night of waiting at Hyannis Port on election night in
1960, and the end of that saga here in Washington with the funeral
and burial of President Kennedy.

It has been a fun and exciting life, broadened I like to think by
four years of government service with the Marshall Plan in Europe.
It’s good for a newspaperman to be on the other side of the govern-
ment fence for a while. My wife is a journalist and writer which has
enabled us to roam the world in connubial bliss and journalistic
competitiveness. Our children see us from time to time and don’t
seem the worse for our sometimes long absences.

My hobbies are watching professional football (I have a proprie-
tary interest in the Minnesota Vikings of the National Football
League), skiing with considerably less dash than when I was at
college, tennis, an occasional game of golf, and music.

If I had my life since college to live over again, would I do the
same thing? You bet I would! — which is a reasonably happy frame
of mind in which to be twenty-five years after leaving the Yard.

| 1096 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WALTER DAY RIDDLE, JR.

 

HOME apprEss: 1445 Middle Ave., Menlo Park, Calif.

OFFICE AppREss: Pacific States Steel Corp., Union City, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; S.M., 1941.

MarriED: Nancy Ellen Walker, May 22, 1942. camp: Thomas Walker, Oct, 8

1947.
occuPaTION: Chief metallurgist.

MEMBER OF: Alameda Lodge No. 167, F. & A.M.; Los Angeles Golf & Country
Club; American Society for Metals.

AFTER college I weathered an additional year in the Graduate
School of Engineering where I received an S.M. degree in metal-
lurgical engineering. Armed with this I went to work for Republic
Steel Corporation in South Chicago, as a metallurgist doing research
work on various grades of alloy carburizing steels. Shortly after
Pearl Harbor, ignoring the admonitions of my Chicago employer
(who stated with a certain amount of authority that the west coast
was going to be bombed), I came to California where I was em-
ployed as a metallurgist for the American Forge Division of Pacific
States Steel Corporation.

In May, 1942, I was married to Nancy Ellen Walker in Sewick-
ley, Pennsylvania, returned to California and have been employed
by Pacific States Steel ever since. I have one son, Thomas, who was
born in Berkeley, California, October 8 1947. My hobbies include

golf (low 80’s with a little bit of luck) and all too infrequent
camping and fishing trips.

[ 1097 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

STEWART DONALD RIDDLES

  

* RN ORRAIE SS CINE POE x

 

\ 5
HOME Abpress: 4509 39th St. N., Arlington, Va.

orFice appress: U.S, Mission to the European Hatrs. of the United Nations,
8o, rue de Lausanne, Geneva, Switzerland (State Dept.).

prepareD aT: Shaker Heights High School, Cleveland, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, C17 laude, 1940; A.M., IQ4I.

marrigp: Dorothy Josephine Snyder, July 18, 1944. cHiLDREN: Constance June,
April 22, 1949; Stewart Dane, March 8, 1951.

occupation: State Department Foreign Service; assigned to U.S. Mission to
European Headquarters of United Nations in Geneva, as economic officer,

specific job: a U.S. Delegate to the Economic Commission for Europe
(one of the four United Nations’ regional economic commissions).

LOOKING back over the past twenty-five years, my life seems to
fall into three periods. Of course it doesn’t really divide so neatly,
but it’s convenient to look at it that way. Harvard taught us to
classify and to categorize, and I guess I learned at least that lesson
well,

After receiving an A.M. in history (Far East and India) in 1941,
I had my first (and only serious) flirtation with the business world
—asa production expediter for Thompson Products (automotive
parts) in Cleveland, Ohio. The affair might have been serious
except for the intervention of the war, which gave me the first of
two extended European tours at government expense. After samp-
ling the Infantry and Ordnance Departments, I ended up in a spot
for which my previous study of Chinese and Indic philology soe
well suited me: the S-4 of a combat engineer battalion. Three years
and a thousand miles of paper work later, the Army and I parted
company with few expressions of regret on either side. But from
wartime, a few things were lasting. I met my future wife, Dorie,
on one furlough, courted her on a second, and we were married on

[ 1098 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the third. We recently celebrated our zoth wedding anniversary
so we think it’s going to stick. Secondly, my wartime peregrina-
tions in England, Germany, France and the Low Countries rein-
forced my interest in European problems, and in one way or another,
I've been concerned with them ever since.

The second phase of my post-college life, from 1946 to 1962, was
less of a piece. Four or five years were spent alternately teaching
(assistant professor of history at Stetson University in Florida) and
in graduate work at Harvard (with a switch from the Far East to
Russian studies). In 1952 an interesting opportunity for research
on Eastern Europe opened up in Washington, D.C., and we decided
to give it a try — which lasted for the next decade. This was a
relatively placid time: we lived in suburbia (why is it so maligned?
we found it pleasant and quite unlike the New Yorker stereotype),
vacationed in Florida, and managed to survive P.T.A., Cub Scouts
and Girl Scouts, with a few discernible traumas.

In mid-1962, however, responding to a long urge to study the
Furopean scene at closer range, I joined the State Department's
Foreign Service and was assigned to the USS. Mission to the Euro-
pean Headquarters of the United Nations in Geneva. Currently,
I'm a U.S. Delegate to the Economic Commission for Europe, but
which has evolved into a major East-West economic and political
forum.

We live in a 150-year-old villa a few miles out of town in the
little suburb of Versoix on Lake Geneva. It’s an ideal location.
We're indulging our love of new sights and strange places (50,000
kilometers of travel by car during the past two years in fifteen coun-
tries), and of good eating. We’re learning French and, even with
some trepidation, are venturing cautiously out on the ski slopes —
Dorie has a real knack for it, but I’m afraid I’m starting it twenty
years too late! Stewart, Jr., now fourteen, is the only American
in a little Swiss school and has become almost bilingual i in French.
Connie is sixteen and seems to have all the interests and problems of
the “typical” teen-ager.

The future? Well, we’re not going to become expatriate Ameri-
cans, although Europe will always beckon. While it’s foolish to
tempt the Fates by making predictions, we can already sce ahead
to a place on the Indian or Halifax Rivers in Florida, with a dock,
a boat and lots of sunshine. Anyone for fishing or a quick dip in
the surf?

[ 1099 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ROBERT ARNOLD RIESMAN

 

HOME ADpRESS: 140 Freeman Pkwy., Providence, R.I. 02906; summer, 291 Tucker-
man Ave., Middletown, RI. 02840.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Carol Cable Co., Pawtucket, R.I. 02682.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cli laude, 1940.

MarRIED: Marcia Jean Stone, May 19, 1946. CHILDREN: Robert Arnold, Jr.
Oct. 31, 1954; Jean Ann, July 28, 1957.

occupation: President, Carol Cable Company, manufacturers of insulated
copper wire and wire products,

OFFICES HELD: Sales manager, 1945-52, president, 1952-60, chairman of the
Board, 1960, Royal Electric Company, Pawtucket, R.L; president Carol
Cable Company, since October, 1961; executive vice-president and di-
rector, Crescent Company, Inc., since October, 1961; member, Industry
Advisory Committee, Electric Fuse Section, BDSA Department of Com-
merce, 1950-55; trustee, Miriam Hospital, Providence, since i953; trustee,
since 1953, 1964 campaign chairman, General Jewish Committee, Provi-
dence; trustee, Pawtucket Boys’ Club, since 1957; general chairman,
Israel Bond Campaign for Rhode Island, 1961; member, board of gover-
nors, Development Corporation for Israel, since 1961, trustee, Jewish
Home for the Aged of Rhode Island, since 1960; member, board of
governors, Gordon School, Providence, 1959-61; chairman of Parents’
Council and trustee, Moses Brown School, Providence, 1964; chairman,
Rhode Island Business & Professional Men & Women for Kennedy/John-
son, 1960; member, board of directors, Rhode Island Council of Com-
munity Services, since 1961, civilian aide to the Secretary of the Army for
Rhode Island, since 1963; member, Rhode Island Committee for the John

F. Kennedy Memorial Library, 1964; corporator, Providence Institution for
Savings, 1954; director of various companies,

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and Rhode Island; Ledgemont County
Club; Wanumetonomy Country Club; American Techion Society; Ameri-
can Jewish Committee; Association of the United States Army.

RECONSTRUCTING accurately the past twenty-five years is like
[ 1100 |

Sitsatssr. OOM neta TOIT TT " - :

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

trying to extract the truth from boozy war reminiscences. Even --
or, perhaps, especially — with yourself as narrator, you muse be
careful to sort out what in fact did happen from w hat should have
happened or what you would like to have happened. Hasty, all-con.-
sidered acts become, in retrospect, bold and well-timed tactical
strokes; indecisive dithering is transformed by hindsight into a de-
liberate strategy of prudence.

On graduation, I applied for active duty with the Army and
emerged five years later a demobilized lieutenant colonel of artlle ty
with a profound uneasiness, which persists to this dav, about the
speedy withdrawal of our forces from Europe. I w anted to hang
around as a correspondent to see what would finally happen te the
big, fat vacuum we had left in the middle of the Continent, re-
membering Will Rogers’ remark that the United States had never
lost a war nor won a conference. However, it was time to go home
and go to work in the family firm.

Christmas Day, 1945, I met a girl I had been trying to avoid, and
who was equally anxious not to meet me, ever since we both learned
that our families wanted us to meet. Eighteen years later she looks
even better than she did when we became engaged on our third
date. Somewhere in the attic there is undoubtedly a portrait of her
that must be starting to look terrible.

Sixty pounds of fighting quarterback is in the fifth grade at Moses
Brown, where he is president of his class and has had high honors for
the last five semesters. He is pointing for Harvard, even though it
represents a great personal sacrifice for him, in view of the verv few
choices drafted by the NFL from the Ivy League. Elis seven-vear-
old sister is a delectable slice of peanut-fed, sugar-cured Smithticld,
whose dramatic performances in the Sarah Bernharde tradition chert
rave notices — and anything she wants — from her Dear Old Dail.

Running a national sales organization in the clectrical busines wave
me a chance to see a lot of our country as it was in the Lite Forties
before we began to apply on a grand scale the coast-to-coast carpet:
ing of concrete, metal, glass, and plastic, mashing our neh regional
variety into a dreary puree of tasteless design and equally tasteless
homogenized cookery. Despite our unrenitting efforts to lowe up

the landscape, it’s still a great country to travel, provided that vou
can get to your favorite spots ahead of the bullduzer. Plearned sane
thing of the scale and diversity, as well as of the strenerh and re
lems of the United States: the endless spectrum Of Jocal qulcure,
custom, and history; our massive economic power and use sulaer

[ 1101 J

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ability; the widely divergent interests that must be reconciled to
arrive at any sort of national policy on anything; the increasing
division of our people into haves and have-nots, and the menace thus
presented to our social and political stability. I am still learning how
to run a national sales organization.

Meanwhile, our business grew beyond the stage where we felt it
could remain a family enterprise, and in 1956 we sold it to one of the
corporate giants. I stayed on for over four years after that and
learned a lot about big business, particularly that it was not for me.
] resigned in 1961 and spent the better part of the year in community
work, travel, and satisfying myself that 1 wanted to stay in Provi-
dence and in the wire business. Later that year, I joined with some
old friends in a wire firm, and together we have built the company
up to a pretty respectable size. In an industry dominated by big
business and publicly-held companies, we call ourselves “the leading
independent.” Don’t let anyone tell you that business need be dull;
it’s an exciting and challenging pursuit, and perhaps some day we'll
learn exactly what it is that we're pursuing.

Almost every year between 1957 and 1962 I returned to Europe
on business or pleasure. Fortunately, I got around to seeing it be-
fore the Europeans caught the bug from us and turned the bull-
dozers loose on their own landmarks and turned the deep-frozen
delicacies loose on their own stomachs. [ve taken the last wise-
crack from my pals across the ocean about the United States being
the only country that went from barbarism to decadence without
ever being civilized, now that Pve seen them select for importa-
tion the very same elements of American culture that they used to
be so snooty about.

Social convictions? Too many Americans are growing up disin-
herited and alienated, whether because of race, color, poverty, or Jack
of opportunity, without prospect of useful employment or par-
ticipation in our society. This is the big domestic problem our
generation should tackle. The other problems we can leave to the
next generation, who seem to be smarter and better educated than we
were at that age — and certainly far more worldly. They will have
the know-how and economic power to solve them if they want to.

Political convictions? Democratic, locally and nationally. We
would not be better Red than dead, but we needn’t destroy civiliza-
tion in honor of an ideological holy war. I share Eisenhower’s con-
cern over the military-industrial complex and also share his lack of
any clear-cut ideas for a workable alternative. We simply must be

[ 1102 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

prepared to apply the appropriate scale of military power, even at

the risk of escalation, to protect our vital interests. The more we

convince the Communists of our ability and will to fight and the

more they have to lose, the less the danger of nuclear conflict. If

we just stay in the ball game in Europe, in Southeast Asia, and any-
where else we need be, if we keep our heads and our nerve, history
may reward us with the time to work out some positive ideas for a
reasonably stable world order (even though we may have to give
history a helping hand by taking out Red China’s nuclear plant).
There is no guarantee that we shall finally prevail, but there's no
alternative to trying.

My only complaint (aside from all the usual complaints of mid-
dle age) is the lack of time remaining after business hours in which
to be a useful citizen.

Looking back at Harvard, I’m grateful for having been exposed to
enough different viruses to have become inoculated against the
doctrinaire view, the dogmatic approach, and the pat answer. I
hope Harvard is still as infectious; may she never become sterilized.

STANLEY JOHN RIMSHAW

Bote pee

  

HOME aApprEss: Route 1, Loudon, Tenn.

OFFICE appress: Union Carbide, Oak Ridge National Laboratory, Oak Rudge,
Tenn.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B, 1940.

MarRieD: Hulon Owens, April 1, 1945. CHILDREN: Francis Leon, July to, tesa.
Mary Monica, March 1, 1954; Therese Anne, April 13, 1964.

occuPATION: Senior chemist in radioisotopes.

OFFICES HELD: Financial secretary, Knights of Columbus,

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Translatory Awociation,

[ 1103 ]

A RDESipstnnete PNAC RS NOR CB ii Ma aan nies etaabiiaatedt di

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

puLications: “Recovery of Cesium-137 from Fission Product Wastes”; “Re-

covery of Technetium by Magnetite Precipitation”; “The Use of Methyl-
Substituted Pyridine Derivative in the Recovery of Technetium and
Rhenium”; “The Use of Borides as Radioisotopic Source Compounds”;
translated several Russian and German technical books.

WITH the advent of World War II, I was busy using my technical
talents in the manufacture of smokeless powder. In August, 1943, I
joined the Atomic Energy project at Oak Ridge, Tennessee, and re-
mained here twenty years to develop the peaceful uses of radioiso-
topes.

Politically, I am independent, with a distaste of the extremes of
left or right. The smooth transfer of executive power in the United
States is the envy and the wonder of the world.

Since man is not all mind yet, but is still a biped, I obtain spiritual

and physical renewal by hiking in the southern Appalachian Moun-
tains.

BERNARD RIVIN

 

: wh .
boa, ae
I Lok |
‘ 4
i |
. :
=? ke a :
ppp
. i 4
an g 8
Low i
een” 4

  

HOME appRESS: 220 Washington St., Portsmouth, Va. 23704.

OFFICE abprEss: 340 High St., Portsmouth, Va. 23704.

PREPARED AT: Scotland High School, Scotland, $.Dak.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., magna cum laude, 1940

MarRieD: Zelma Goodman, Aug. 30, 1941. CHILDREN: Richard Andrew, Jan. 10,
1945; Ann, May 9, 1948; Rosalind, March 10, 1952; Jonathan, Dec. 19, 1955:

HARVARD SON: Richard Andrew Rivin, ’67.

OCCUPATION: Executive vice-president, The Famous, fashion specialty shop for

women.

OFFICES HELD: President, Portsmouth Retail Merchants Association, 1954, Temple
Sinai, 1956-57, Portsmouth Naval Museum, 1961-62, Portsmouth Little
Theatre, 1952, Portsmouth Jewish Community Council, 1956; member,
board of directors, Portsmouth General Hospital, 1955-57, since 1962,

[ 1104 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Portsmouth Public Library, 1954-57, Portsmouth Chamber of Commerce,
since 1960, Portsmouth Industrial Foundation, since 1952, Portwnouth
United Jewish Appeal, since 1954, Virginia Retail Merchants Association,
since 1954, Portsmouth United Fund, 1957-59, Portsmouth Kiwans Club,
1963-64, Portsmouth Community Concert Association, since 1943.

THESE twenty-five years have passed very quickly. If I didn’s
observe my children growing physically, and challenging me in-
tellectually, I'd be certain that no more than ten years had passed
since graduation. Though the photographs near this narrative may
belie it, I feel as agile and active as I did in 1940.

Outside of five and a half years in the military service during
World War II, my time since graduation has been spent in the retail
business — in New York until the Army days, and since the Anny,
in Portsmouth, Virginia. I find the fashion business fascinating and
feel that it is definitely in the nature of a “public service.” Our firm
has a strong conviction that the proper female attire, and a positive
attitude toward appearance, are important. In this relatively small
community, we are a fashion bulwark.

During my only trip to Europe in 1961, I ran into Bob Riesman
in a hotel lobby. On my business trips to New York I occasionally
see Howie Abramson. These have been my only contacts with
members of the Class since the roth Class Reunion. There are a few
Harvard men living in Portsmouth, and a few more in neighboring
Norfolk. Our paths rarely cross, however. An abortive attempt was
made, about five or six years ago, to organize a Harvard Club in
this area. Thus, until my son was ready for college, my contacts with
Harvard people were few. But since he has entered (Class of 1947).
I have been in Cambridge several times, and expect to resume and
maintain many friendships and acquaintances at, and after, the 2th
Reunion.

My wife and I are dedicated to our community, and almost every
facet of its life. She works tirelessly with the projects and activites
of the Association of University Women, the League ef Women
Voters, Hadassah, and more. Downtown redevelopment and re-
vitalization has been my main concern these past ten years. Our tirin
led the way, in 1958, with the first new commercial building in
Portsmouth’s downtown area since tgqo. [ served as the first pres
dent of a Naval Museum on our downtown waterfront. A doeca
committees concerned with various aspects of this matter have

occupied me. And I feel that our efforts are at last beginning to bear

[ 1105 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

fruit —in new residences, new apartments, new streets, new traffic
patterns.

Temple Sinai, a reform Jewish congregation, was organized in
our town ten years ago. Zelma and I were among the organizers.
She has served as the principal of the Temple Religious School for
many years. I have been president, member of the board of directors
and am now the treasurer of the Temple. We are small and we
sometimes struggle — but we never lack for problems to occupy us.
We feel that the stimulus of a vital, flexible kind of religious ob-
servance has been one of the high lights of our lives.

From personal commitment to the downtown revitalization I
spoke about above, we recently moved to a home downtown. Now
I get home to lunch several times a week; we’re a block from the
waterfront, five blocks from my business, six blocks from the public
library; the two younger children can walk or ride their bicycles
to school.

Altogether, these twenty-five years have treated me well, and [ve

tried to do the same for the years, my family, my community, my
country.

DAVID CALDWELL RIVINUS

 

HOME AbpRESS: 121 E, sqth St., New York, N.Y. 10022.

oFFice appress: United Negro College Fund, 22 E. sqth St., New: York, N.Y.
PREPARED aT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE; 1936-1940, DEGREE: S.B. 1940,

UNMARRIED.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Markoe Rivinus, ’38.

occupation: Director of fund raising in New York City for United Negro Col-
lege Fund.

[ 1106 ]

. |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IT took me twelve years after leaving college to find myself. This
should say enough about the preparation I received there. Was it
college? Was it the conservative American’s desire to standardize
everything and everybody? Was it prejudice? Or was it only me?

I don’t know the answers. But of one thing I am sure —a smaller
college where more attention to the individual is possible is better
for those of us who cannot fit into the mold, and they are legion.
We needed direction at Harvard and we never found it.

So, after four years of unrest at Cambridge and all the rudderless
years after graduation, I at last discovered that my personal path to
contentment lay in helping others, but without meddling and with-
out illusion. It is a wisdom I wish for all of us and I am only sorry
it took so long in coming to me.

CHANDLER SEYMOUR ROBBINS

‘mene

    

HOME ApprEss: Robbins Nest, 1409 Brooklyn Bridge Rd., Laurel, Md.

OFFICE apprEss: Migratory Bird Populations Station, Patuxent Wildlife Research
Center, Laurel, Md.

PREPARED AT: Belmont High School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; $.M. (George Washington
Univ.), 1950.

MARRIED: Eleanor Graham Cooley, April 16, 1948. CHILDREN: Jane Seymour,
April 20, 1949; Stuart Bradley, June 12, 1950; George Chandler, Dec. 3.
1953; Nancy Ellen, Aug. 22, 1956.

occupation: Wildlife research biologist, Bureau of Sport Fisheries & Wikllife,
US. Fish & Wildlife Service; chief, Section of Migratory Non-game
Bird Studies.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, 1952-55, trustee, since 1961, Maryland Ornithe-
logical Society; editor, Maryland Birdlife, since 1947; technical editor,
Audubon Field Notes, since 1954; honorary vice-president, Audubon So-
ciety of New Hampshire.

[ 1107 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

MEMBER OF: First Methodist Church (Laurel); American Ornithologists Union
(elective member); Wilson Ornithological Society, Cooper Ornithological
Society; Wildlife Society, American Meteorological Society; Georgia,
Louisiana, Maryland, Tennessee, Texas, Virginia and Wisconsin Orni-
thological Societies; Eastern, Inland, Michigan, Northeastern and Western
Bird-Banding Associations, Audubon Societies, etc.

pusLications: “Birds of Maryland and the District of Columbia,” R. E. Stewart
and C. S. Robbins, North American Fauna No, 62, U.S.D.L, 1958; Field
Guide — Birds (of North America), C. S. Robbins, B. Bruun and H. 8S.
Zim, to be published in 1965 by Golden Press.

PICTURE an ex-Glee Club member trying to conjure up something
of interest to his classmates while three of his four offspring are
playing with (not on) an accordion, a piano and a clarinet. The
eldest, at least, shows more promise musically than her old man and
plays quite successfully in the high school band.

My first love since childhood has been bird study. I was side-
tracked into physics as a result of earning a “D” in freshman biology,
and managed to stick with the physics long enough to don a cap and
gown. But when the opportunity came to take a temporary position
in ornithology with the Fish & Wildlife Service, I took on a heavy
schedule of zoology courses simultaneously at George Washington
and the University of Maryland to meet the qualification of the
position. I have never regretted the change to ornithology, al-
though, when one’s hobby coincides with one’s work, there is seldom
spare time for anything else. Fortunately, Eleanor and all four
youngsters share my interests in bird banding, nature and conserva-
tion.

I started working for Uncle Sam as a lowly “P-1” biologist and
am now chief of one of the smallest sections of the federal govern-
ment — that dealing with estimating populations of migratory non-
game birds and studying their semi-annual migrations.

I do a little migrating myself and have been fortunate enough to
work in forty-five of the fifty states and all but two Canadian
provinces, One of my most challenging assignments has been the
gooney bird problem at Midway Naval Station in the Pacific.
Some 50,000 of these six-pound albatrosses share the thousand-acre
island with several hundred aviators and show no fear of military
aircraft. The birds have few other places they can go to nest.
Rather than sacrifice many of the birds, we are endeavoring, through
habitat management, to eliminate nesting sites near the aircraft run-

ways and to alter the air currents over the island to reduce bird
traffic over the runways.

[ 1108 ]

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I enjoy singing in the church choir, both at home and at Midway,
and I teach a Sunday School class when I am home. My stamp col-
lecting has been unable to compete with birds, but the stamp bug has
bitten my youngsters, so I haven’t stopped it entirely.

Most of my leisure for the past two years (including the first
month-long vacation since the year we were married) has been
devoted to writing a field guide for the identification of North
American birds.

MORTON STUART ROBBINS, JR.

Fo ny

  

HOME Appress: Chelsea, Vt.

OFFICE appRESSs: 18 Park St., Chelsea, Vt.

PREPARED AT: Riverdale Country School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarRiED: Elizabeth Marion Medbery, Nov. 19, 1944. CHILDREN: Thomas Mur
ray, May 21, 1946; Mary Lou, June 18, 1949.

occupation: Proprietor of general store.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Town Republican Committee, 1958-645 Town Auditor,
since 1962; Justice of Peace, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: V.F.W.; George Washington Lodge, F. & A.M.

AFTER graduation I headed for Ohio. I was all set for a training
program with a future, subject to my status in the draft. Not only
was I 1~A, but my number was quite low, which killed the job with
a future. 1 was selected by my friends and neighbors in February,
1941, and before the year was up, the war came. Overseas to Fng-
land in August, 1942; to Oran (D plus 1); Tunisia; to Italy (D plus
2), including Anzio for four weeks. In September, 1944, I returned
to the U.S. for temporary duty, got married, then back to Italy,
January, 1945. Was in Milan V-E Day. Discharged July, 1945, as
a master sergeant.

[ 1109 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

We came to Vermont where we entered into the general store on
a partnership basis. We have stayed here feeling that the country
life was the best, that it would be more wholesome for our children,
and that even if we never got wealthy we would all be happier.

After twenty years up here we are not wealthy, but we are well
and happv. We still run the general store. Our kids have grown up.
Tom graduated from Chelsea High School last June and Mary Lou is
a sophomore. Both seem to be doing well. Country living has been
fun. Taxes are very high up here, compared to city rates. The tax
base is small, and the squeeze is on—resulting in an inadequate
school budget, and an inability to hire the better teachers, no im-
provements around the village; poor roads; but the scenery changes
from day to day, especially in the winter and spring. The air is
fresh and clean.

In the final analysis I guess we are glad we did come up here, but
there is always the gnawing feeling that we would have been smarter
to have stayed in or near a city and entered the “rat-race.” The best
comment I’ve heard on the subject came from my wife: “We're

reasonably healthy, get enough to eat, have a few of the comforts of
life, and we DON’T have ulcers.” Not yet, anyway.

ROBERT MORRILL ROBBINS

4
4

   

HOME appress: 1408 S. Bayshore Drive, Miami, Fla. 33131.

oFFice appress: Mill Factors Corp., DuPont Plaza Bldg., Miami, Fla. 33131.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B, cum laude, 1940.

MarrieD: Sascha Newman, Jan. 7, 1942 (divorced 1962). CHILDREN: Jay
Newman, Sept. 12, 1946; Patricia Claire, July 1, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Samuel Morrill Robbins, ’45, m.p.a., ’50; James Morrill
Robbins, °48.

[ 1110 ]

ed

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, Mill Factors Corporation, diversified commercial

financing and factoring company.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Kings Bay Yacht & Country Club,

Miami, Fla.

I ENTERED the Navy in 1942 as an ensign in the Supply Corps. 1

saw active service in North Africa, Italy and Southern France with

LST Flotilla 1 and was discharged as lieutenant senior grade in

1946. I came back to Boston after the war and returned to the

family’s financing business which I had left to enter the service.
From 1946 to 1958, I engaged in various aspects of financing but
gradually became disenchanted with its possibilities in Boston. I
felt the economic opportunities would be much greater in newer
and faster-growing areas and moved to Miami in 1958. I have never
had any cause to regret the change. The climate is conducive to
every kind of activity although I do not participate as much nor as
often as I would like.

In 1962, my marriage broke up which created a new set of prob-
lems. I have found, however, that Miami is a very good place for a
single man and, at the moment, I intend to stay in the “state of single
blessedness,” although my mind is not closed. It happens that mv
children live with me so that I have a semblance of a reasonable
home life.

Businesswise, I find South Florida stimulating and an area that has
great rewards for those that come here with specific knowledge.
The city is a frontier town much like Los Angeles of a generation
ago. It is the natural gateway to Central and South America and be-
cause of our newly awakened national interest in the regions south
of us I believe that Miami will continue to grow and prosper at an
accelerated pace. Culturally, Miami is a comparative desert which
at this time is one of its main drawbacks. This will change in time

as more cultured northerners come south to get “sand in their shoes”

—as I did.

[ rire |

_—____

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

CHARLES ALLEN ROBERTSON

etm no cans eaget ge ROPER
3 &

    

HOME appress: 3 River Hill Rd., Louisville, Ky.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ogden, Robertson & Marshall, 610 M. E. Taylor Bldg. - Louis-
ville, Ky.

PREPARED AT: Louisville Male High School, Louisville, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LL.B., 1948.

marrieD: Gloria Merle Olsen, March 26, 1949. cHiLpreEN: David Ashley, Nov.
16, 1950; Julia Merle, Sept. 9, 1953.

occupation: Lawyer — partner, Ogden, Robertson & Marshall.

MEMBER OF: Louisville Country Club; Pendennis Club,

AFTER graduation I spent the war uneventfully in the Canal Zone
and in the Republic of Panama, trying to learn patience. This was
followed by a visit to the Law School, graduation, practice of law,
marriage, two children and the usual incidentals that accompany such
events.

I have since watched, with interest but dismay, on the one hand,
the relative success of a series of aggressive, self-confident opponents,
national and individual, of the basic tenets of western civilization,
and, on the other hand, the writings which have resulted from the
substitution of guilt for reason and principle as the chief motivation
of our society, and its consequent gradual surrender of the crowning
achievement of western civilization, the ability to weigh and de-
termine conflicts of interest objectively, in reliance upon generally
accepted principles, regardless of the sympathies of the person
making the determination, rather than upon the basis of the personal
preconception and interest. I sincerely hope this is a passing phe-
nomenon.

[ 1112 |

——

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

EDWARD GRANT ROBINSON

 

HOME ApprREss: 2 Wildermere Terr., Concord, N.H.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Morrill & Everett, Inc., 77 N. Main St., Concord, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Franklin High School, Franklin, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-40. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

marrieD: Dorothy Pendleton, June 27, 1945. CHILDREN: Karen Elizabeth, June
8, 1946; Christine, March 24, 1949; David Grant, Feb. 27, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president of an insurance and real estate firm, responsible
for production and service of general insurance accounts.

OFFICES HELD: President, New Hampshire Association of Insurance Agents,
1953; president, Harvard Club of New Hampshire, 1962-64; member, Srate
Board of Education, 1953-58; member, Concord Board of Education, since
1960, president, 1963.

MEMBER OF: Unitarian Church; Harvard Club of New Hampshire; Appalachian
Mountain Club; New Hampshire Philharmonic Society; Currier Art Gal-
lery.

SINCE graduation I have held an interesting succession of jobs in
a variety of communities. I have been a school teacher, a soldicr, a
trade association executive and an insurance agent.

Fortunately, it has taken only one woman to satisfy the several
requirements of my domestic life, so that I have been very happily
married for twenty years. Three children and good health have
been important factors here.

I give time steadily but jealously to my community, my church
and my business even though the beliefs which I hold do not scem to
have any more attraction outside my home than in.

[ 1113 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ALAN WESSON ROCKWELL

 

HOME appress: Valley Road, Paoli, Pa.

OFFICE apprEss: Moore, Rockwell, White, Inc., 19 E. 6gth St., New York, N.Y,
PREPARED AT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Stuart Wesson Rockwell, ’39, David Wesson Rockwell, ’42.
occuPaTION: Importing.

GERALD PHILIP ROESER

 

HOME AND OFFICE apprEss: P.O, Box 92, Lahaska, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Reading Senior High School, Reading, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1940.

marrieD: Helen Overturf, Sept. 11, 1941. CHILDREN: Prugh H., Oct. 23, 19453
Allan D., Jan. 26, 1947; Janet V., May 5, 1951; Faith E., Sept. 3, 1955.

occupation: Chemical research and consulting, contract chemical research
and production in the fields of coatings for metal and wire and rubber
compounds for flexible molds,

OFFICES HELD: President, Trenton Technical Society, 1945-46; treasurer, Fall-

[1114]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

sington Library Company, since 1957; vice-chairman, board of trustees,
Solebury School, since 1963.
MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; Sigma Xi; Alpha Chi Sigma,
American Association for the Advancement of Science, Lagonda Club.
PUBLICATIONS: Two dozen U.S. and foreign patents in the fields of coatings
for metal and wire and the cold-forming and lubricating of metals.

TWENTY-FIVE years have shown that the switch from premedical
concentration to chemistry was most fortunate and more of what I
was qualified for. My first position, as junior engineer at the Scort
Paper Company, soon showed my forte was not engineering but
bench work in the chemical laboratory. This position was soon fol-
lowed by one at the Atlas Mineral Products Company, then the
Thiokol Chemical Corporation, a brief span at the Plastics Labora-
tory at Princeton University, and finally my own business in 1948.
A research contract gave me the break I needed. Shortly there-
after I started development and production of cold-setting rubber
compounds. Between the contract chemical research and the pro-
duction work, I’ve been busy ever since.

Running a small business (four employees) should be required of
everyone. Being boss one moment and janitor another, one soon
learns the hard way to cope with the government, the innumerable
forms, finance and people. There is no source book for operating a
small business but one soon becomes acquainted with fabric of the
country and marvels how things get done in spite of the road-blocks
everywhere. Despite all the rigors, being a small businessman en-
ables one to do more or less as he pleases and to crusade, somewhat
slightly, for better morals and ethics. The hours are long and de-
manding and it’s hard to get away, but you re as close to controlling
your destiny as you'll ever be.

Of course, the way was considerably smoothed by being married
to an accountant with a sharp sense of finance, law, savvy of human
nature and good humor. .

On the human side, the years have been consumed in raising a
family of four. Our private, professional and social lives have been
almost completely intertwined. The fall our first son was born, my
spare time was devoted to helping start the Trenton Technical
Society. And as its first president I spent a pleasant year in close
contact with many local chemists. Along with the laune hing of our
second-born, we launched the business. ‘By the time the third came

along, Fairless Steel Works had invaded our agricultural com-
munity and we worked on a host of civic activities: planning and

[rirs]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

zoning, scouting, libraries, etc. The birth of the last was marked by
our purchase of a farm in upper Bucks County where we still are.
With the farm being a place for work, living and play, we can ven-
ture into the mainstream of the world or retreat into our independent
solitude.

Ties have been maintained with our old community and I have
enjoyed the fifteen years since as a Fallsington Library director. In
our present location, | am completing three years as a trustee of the
Solebury School. The liaison with this private secondary school has
resulted in a deeper appreciation of the problem of education in this
fast-changing world and the need for getting our youngsters started
right.

For the last ten years, through business and civic activity, thick
and thin, we have ridden our abiding hobby of sports and interest-
ing cars. It started with an MG-TD for my wife for Mothers’ Day
one year and has led to the acquisition of four vehicles and many in-
teresting friendships. It has also resulted in the conversion of some
drivers from modern Detroit to more exotic vehicles.

Twenty-five years have gone like the wind and we're having the
time of our lives, Let’s hope the next twenty-five will be as good.

BENJAMIN FRANKLIN ROGERS, JR.

  

SF “

oFFice appress: Florida Atlantic University, Boca Raton, Fla
PREPARED AT: St. Paul Academy, St. Paul, Minn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1940; A.M., 19413 PH-D-
(Univ. of Minnesota), 1951.

HOME ADDRESS: 2290 Areca Palm Drive, Boca Raton, Fla.

marpiep: Martha Adams (Folkedahl), July 30, 1945. cumupren: Ruth Adams,

[ 1116 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Jan. 31, 1947; Benjamin Franklin, 3d, Oct. 5, 1949; David DeCoster, Oct. 8,
1951; Clay Wallace, Nov. 11, 1958.

occupation: Dean, College of Humanities and professor of history, Florida
Atlantic University.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1961-62, president, 1962-63, Southern Conference
of Deans of Faculties and Academic Vice-presidents; secretary-treasurer,
Southeastern American Studies Association, 1959-62; treasurer, 1950-61,
vice-president, 1961-62, Jacksonville Historical Society; member, board of
directors, Florida Historical Society, 1958-60, 1961-63; member, board of
editors, Florida Historical Quarterly, since 1963; president, Jacksonville
Historical Society, 1964.

MEMBER OF: Phi Alpha Theta; American Historical Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles in the field of history and education.

ON finishing my Master’s degree in 1941, I accepted a teaching
position at the Arizona Desert School in Tucson. When war broke
out, I got all my papers ready to apply for a naval commission
through V-7, but since Harvard had not required me to take mathe-
matics the Navy turned me down. When I asked if there was any-
thing I could do with the papers, they said “Yes, if you want to
fly,” and so, although I had never been in an airplane before, I ended
up flying PBYs during the war from Bermuda to New Guinea and
back.

On July 30, 1945, Martha and I were married, and on separation
from the Navy headed back to Arizona for the Desert School's fall
term. We truly enjoyed our two years there with a built-in family
of ten small boys, and I think we might have stayed in boarding
school work if Ruthie had not come along 1 in 1947. Since then, she
has been joined by three brothers. | |

As it was, we went back to Minnesota to work on a Doctorate in
history, and upon its completion to Florida where we have been since
1950, first in the History Department at Florida State University in
Tallahassee, then as dean at Jacksonville University, and since last
summer in my present position as dean of the College of Humanities
at Florida Atlantic University 1 in Boca Raton. - -

This is a brand-new state institution with a new approach to higher
education. With only juniors, seniors, and graduate students, we
will have no intercollegiate athletics or fraternities and sororities.
We emphasize programmed instruction, the use of television, and
all manner of electronic aids, combined with directed independent

study. The faculty is generally young and adventurous, and we are
all excited over the University’s future.

Although the field of education has had its problems and frustra-

[ 1117 ]

—_______. |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

tions, and although it is much more involved in politics and much
less idealistic than I imagined it would be when I was at Harvard,
it is nevertheless a wonderful way of life, and one which I would not

have traded in on any other profession at any time in the last
twenty-five years.

HARRISON LANG ROGERS

 

HOME Appress: 1183 S, Main St., Carthage, Mo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 117 E. Fourth St., Joplin, Mo,

PREPARED AT: Pembroke-Country Day School, Kansas City, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREE: A.B. (Franklin and Marshall Coll.), 1940.

MaRRIED: Ruth M. Shearer, Sept. 27, 1941. CHILDREN: Judith Ann, Dec. 21, 1942;
Sharyn Lang, Oct. 4, 1946, Timothy Lang, Nov. 5, 1952.

occupation: Editor and publisher, Joplin Globe Publishing Company.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Missouri Commission on Higher Education.

MEMBER oF: American Society of Newspaper Editors; Associated Press Man-

aging Editors Association; Sigma Delta Chi, Kappa Sigma; all Masonic
Orders,

[ 1118 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN FRANCIS ROGERS

 

HOME apprEss: 278 Clarendon St., Boston, Mass. 02116.

OFFICE ADDRESS: State Street Bank & Trust Co., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Lahainaluna School, Lahaina, Maui, Hawaii.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937, 1938-1941. DEGREE: A.B., 1940(41).
Marriep: Edna O. Jeffery, May 10, 1952.

occupPATION: Assistant treasurer, banking.

MEMBER OF: Kappa Alpha Fraternity; Boston Estate and Business Planning
Council.

ARCHIBALD BULLOCH ROOSEVELT

 

HOME AppRESS: 24 S. Eaton Pl., London S.W. 1, England,

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S, Embassy, Grosvenor Square, London, England,

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREE: A.B, 1940(3y),

MarrieD: Katharine W. Tweed, May 18, 1940 (divorced tgso), Sclma Show ker,
Sept. 1, 1950. cHiLp: Tweed, Feb. 28, 1942.

HARVARD SON: Tweed Roosevelt, °66.

[1119 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

oocupaTion: Foreign Service officer, U.S. Department of State; currently at
American Embassy, London,

MEMBER OF: Garrick Club, London; City Tavern Association, Washington.

A BRIEF and undistinguished career as a newspaper reporter was
ended by the war, during which I served in North Africa and ended
up in the Middle East. Following an interest I had in the Middle
East even before Harvard, I stayed on there after the war, serving
in different capacities in various Embassies and Consulates in the
Arab countries, Turkey and Iran. I also served briefly as chief of the
Middle East section of the Voice of America.

My first marriage, to Katharine W. Tweed, ended in divorce in
1950, and that same year I met and married my present wife, Selma
Showker. She is a Vassar graduate and a professional writer.

After returning from Turkey in 1953, we settled in Washington,
where, in the intervals when we are serving at home, we live in a
typical old Georgetown house with a garden. Now, however, we
are enjoying London in a typical Belgravia house, and hope to be
here two more years. After having had the good fortune to serve
three and a half years in Spain, we thought we should never love any

place as much again. We were wrong. We didn’t know London.

+ DANIEL STEWART ROOSEVELT

“po

 

BoRN: July 26, 1917, Mohawk, N.Y. parents: Gracie Hall Roosevelt, °13,
Margaret Richardson,

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936~1939.

prep: April 18, 1939, Guadalupe, Victoria, Mexico,

DANIEL STEWART ROOSEVELT was in his junior year with

[1120]

ET

___

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

our Class when he was killed in an airplane crash. He was survived
by his parents.

J. WILLARD ROOSEVELT

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 138 W. 13th St., New York, N.Y. 10011.

JEROME ELIOT ROSEN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 36 Bullard Rd. Weston, Mass.

OFFICE apprEss: Berman & Lewenberg, Esqs., 73 Tremont St., Boston & Masa,
PREPARED AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1938-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940, LL.B, 19431 44).

MarRIED: Greta J. Brenner, Oct. 2, 1955. CHILDREN: Kim Ellen, Now. 13. 1yd4,
Debora Anne, May 12, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Jewish Big Brother Association of Boston, director of
various corporations represented as general counsel.

MEMBER OF: American and Boston Bar Associations; Harvard Law Sched
Assocation; Kernwood Country Club; Zeta Beta Tau Fraternity.

[ rr21 |

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

[ FIND it difficult to look back to 1940 without thinking how few
years seem to have passed since then and how little I seem to have ac-
complished. Has it really been this long? Even trying to recon-
struct my life since graduation leaves me convinced that it was only
a few years ago.

Two years at the Law School were followed by military service
in the Mediterranean Theatre as an Air Force combat intelligence
officer. I managed to accumulate enough points to return to the
States in time for the fall semester and was graduated in June of
i946. After four years of learning the law as practised by and with

‘a medium-sized firm, I spent several years as a partner in my own
firm. I have been sole master of my own fate since leaving that firm,
and have been in my present law office association since 1960. While
I try to specialize in estate and corporation work, I find myself fre-
quently practising in the fields required by the client rather than
my Id.

Marriage came in 1955, the children arrived fairly close to one
another, and thereafter I found myself wrapped up in the still-
continuing demands of house and home. I have never deviated (ex-
cept for service years) from pursuit of Mistress Law. In the years
immediately following the war, 1 joined every organization in
sight, headed one or two, and occupied numerous posts as committee
chairman or director. The press of time and diminished zeal for
organization work have cut this aspect of life considerably, but I am
still reasonably active and extremely interested in Big Brother
work,

In these twenty-five years, | brought my golf handicap from fifteen
to nine (and, more recently, back up to fourteen! ); trundled down
many a ski slope with only one injury of consequence; had a coro-
nary in 1963; and helped a great many people and companies solve a
great many problems, usually to my very great satisfaction (and
occasional reward!). I have not knowingly made any new law, and
my professional achievements have been the results of hard work far
more frequently than of intuitive and inspirational flashes of genius.
I have managed to keep secret my lack of world-shaking accomplish-
ments from my children, whose judgment and approval, in the last
analysis, is more important to me than that of any others.

Geographically speaking, my working years have been spent al-
most entirely in the Boston area. Having recently moved to the
country, after years of apartment living in the Back Bay, I suspect
that battling the building trades and the encroachments of nature

[ 1122 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

will now consume more and more of my available time and strength.
My Harvard associations have worn well over the years, and I
have received great pleasure from my occasional work for the Class.
Along with a smattering of learning Harvard gave me the desire to
do things a little bit better, a capacity for appreciation, a worldliness
and broad-ranging viewpoint which once gained is never entircly
lost no matter how repetitive one’s work and life. I can criticize
Harvard for having opened horizons toward which it was not my
lot to journey, but, in retrospect, the exposure was well worthw hile.

Withal, I think it has been a useful if not spectacular tw enty-five
years. If I were able to accept the theory of passive service and
greatness through stability, I would be far less troubled by what
might have been. On the other hand, I always have the next twenty-
five years.

My convictions? Strange how few they are today compared with
1940, and how less strongly I feel about them. Some which still have
vitality are: taxes are too high; income is too low; one should strive
always to preserve the home, family, established institutions, the rule
of reason, the Supreme Court and the two-party system, our genera-
tion is obligated to make our children’s generation all that we would
have wished for our own; atomic holocaust is sooner or later in-
evitable unless the countries of the world forsake their present colli-

sion courses; there is too little leisure time, too little working time,
and far too much insecurity in the world.

ISADORE NATHAN ROSENBERG

 

HOME Appress: 12 Whittlesey Rd., Newton Center, Mass.
OFFICE AppREss: Boston City Hospital, 818 Harrison Ave. Boston, Mass
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

[ 1123 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940, M.v.. magna
cum laude, 1943.

marRiED: Rosetta Leventon, June 15, 1954. CHILpREN: Carol Lisa, Oct. 2, 1956;
Benjamin Edward, Feb. 2, 1959.

HARVARD BROTHER: Norman Rosenberg, °46.

occupation: Physician — research, teaching and clinical practice of endocri-
nology; physician-in-charge, Endocrine Laboratory, Fifth and Sixth (Boston
University) Medical Services, Boston City Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor, 1954-60, associate professor, since 1960, De-
partment of Medicine, Boston University School of Medicine; associate
visiting physician, 1954-63, physician-in-chief, Sixth Medical Service, since
1963, Boston City Hospital; staff member, Massachusetts Memorial, New-
ton-Wellesley and Faulkner Hospitals.

MEMBER OF: Endocrine Society; American Society for Clinical Investigation,
American Thyroid Association; Biochemical Society (London); American
Association for the Advancement of Science, New York Academy of Sci-

ences; American Society of Internal Medicine; American Medical Asso-
ciation; Massachusetts Medical Society.

pusLication: Author or co-author of approximately thirty-five papers pub-
lished in scientific journals on a variety of topics in endocrinology.

THE decade and a half after graduation was spent largely in
graduate education and training, save for a period of military service.
After graduating from the Harvard Medical School in December,
1943, and then serving a nine-month internship in medicine at the
Boston City Hospital, I spent the next two years in the Army, as a
medical officer, the latter portion of this in the Philippine Islands.
From 1947 to 1949, after six months in the Biochemistry Depart-
ment at the Harvard Medical School, I served as medical resident at
the Boston City Hospital. On completing this appointment, I be-
came a research fellow in endocrinology at the New England Center
Hospital, intending to spend a year there before starting the practice
of internal medicine. As matters turned out, the attraction of re-
search in this area proved strong, and I remained there for five years.
1954 was a big year; in rapid succession, I got married and began a
new position at the Boston City Hospital, as physician-in-charge of
the Boston University Medical Service Endocrine Unit. There I
have remained, devoting most of my time to research in endocri-
nology, particularly of the thyroid gland, and to directing the efforts
of several research fellows; in addition, there is some clinical practice
and teaching of medical students and house officers,

Since graduation I have gained about twenty-five pounds, most of
it in the past decade. This despite the demands of my young children
upon their dad, which entail rather more Physical exercise (ice
skating, swimming, etc.) than I have engaged in since our freshman

[1124 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

year at college. Being a parent, I find, occupies nearly full-time when
not at work, so there is comparatively little time for much in the
way of hobbies, travel or even quiet meditation.

One of my major disappointments occurred at the Class Reunion
at the Harvard-Yale football game last fall. I was startled to see how
old and fat our classmen have become in a quarter-century that has
passed so fast.

IRWIN ROSS

  

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 185 West End Ave., New York, N.Y. 10023.
PREPARED AT: B.M.C. Durfee High School, Fall River, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cU?#1 laude, 1940.
occuUPATION: Writer.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Society of Magazine Writers, The
P.E.N. Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Strategy For Liberals, Harper, 1949; The linage Merchants; The
Fabulous World Of Public Relations, Doubleday, 1959.

FEW people who write for a living find the process of compost-
tion pleasurable; the present assignment is particularly intimidating.
Who can contemplate twenty-five years without feelings of regret,
nostalgia, inadequacy? In retrospect, every modest achievement is
diminished, every unfulfilled aspiration magnified. In some ways,
this quarter century report is a cruel ceremonial.

Actually, I have not had too bad a time of it. I have grown fat,
but retained my hair and my health. I have had one unsuccessful
marriage, soon after the war, but have so far escaped the serial
marital disasters that have afflicted some of my friends. I have
published two books, hundreds of magazine and newspaper articles,
the books, at least, gave me a little more than passing satisfaction, as

[ 1125 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

did a few of the journalistic projects. I have had a chance to travel,
and I have learned to eat well.

The odd thing is that I have been doing the same things for pre-
cisely twenty- -five years. I started contributing articles to the New
Republic in my senior year in college; after graduation I moved on
to Harper's, the American Mercury and other journals; even when
I was in the Army I was writing magazine pieces, about the exploits
of the Transportation Corps in the ETO, in whose Paris public re-
lations office I had a job as a “paragraph trooper.” In the years
since the war I have written for publications as dissimilar as the
Reader’s Digest and Fortune, Cosmopolitan and Conrmentary. I am
a generalist, with a capacity to acquire a smattering of ignorance, as
I think Oscar Levant once put it, about almost any subject except
sports and science. I particularly like to write about people, politics,
labor and business.

During most of the twenty-five years, I have been a full-time
free lance, having held only two jobs: a post-graduation stint, in the
early ’4o’s, with the U.S. Committee of International Student Serv-
ice, for whom I edited a magazine called Threshold; and a job as a
feature writer on the New York Post from 1953 to 1961. Even
when so employ ed, I kept grinding out magazine articles on the side;
compulsive work habits are difficult to change.

For seventeen of the twenty-five years, I lived in the same apart-
ment in New York City; for eighteen years I have had the same
telephone number. What could be more uneventful —but the
journalist, after all, is the spectator sportsman par excellence. I
really do not complain; at the moment, after the November elec-
tions, I am even optimistic about our communal future.

[ 1126 ]

_______|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SYDNEY ROSS

 

HOME AbpRESS: 2831 Chesterfield Pl, N.W., Washington 8, D.C.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 5225 Connecticut Ave., N.W., Washington 15, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Revere High School, Revere, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1940; M.D, 1943.

MARRIED: Bernice Elaine Salans, Aug. 20, 1943. CHILDREN: Wendy Margarct,
April 20, 1946; John David, March a1, 1951; Jill Patricia, Oct. 21, 1953;
Sydney Michael, Aug. 4, 1957.

OccUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Associate clinical professor of pediatrics, Georgetown University
School of Medicine, 1957-64; chief, Microbiology Section, Rescarch
Foundation, 1948-64, senior attending physician, 1956-64, Children’s Hos-
pital, Washington, D.C.; chairman (Washington area), Program for
Harvard Medicine Fund Drive.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Pediatrics (diplomate); American Academy
of Pediatrics (fellow); American Society of Microbiology; Infectious

Disease Society of America; American Medical Association, Harvard Club
of Washington.

PUBLICATIONS: Forty-two articles in various medical journals, primarily on
infectious diseases,

AS I set fist to paper to attempt to capsulize my life since graduation,
and pen some other deathless lines (secure in the belief thar twenty-
five years out of Harvard allows one to pontificate and proynost-
cate), the most compelling thought that assails me is that twenty-five
years has sped by so quickly that it is difficult to account for its
passage. The vague, panoramic image of events and people blurs
to sound and fury. I am not quite ready to say that it signifies
nothing.

Briefly and sequentially, I entered Harvard Medical School fol-
lowing graduation from the College and spent the next three and a
half years (expedited during World War II) soaking up vast chunks

[ 1127 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

tions that, from the time of Mr. Goldwater’s coronation in San
Francisco in July, to Election Day on November 3d, the population
had increased two million in the United States and ten million in
Communist China. . Prosperous nations like ours can support a
burgeoning population, at least for the moment, but poorer nations
have to run like hell to stay in the same place. Poor Malthus! It is
rather intriguing to read accounts of the latest exploits of our more
durable classmates in the Alunmi Bulletin re new progeny being
sired by our aging confreres. I would feel that by the time our
Fiftieth Reunion rolls around, however, the physical ravages of senes-
cence will have separated the men from the boys.

As for the control of atomic energy, it reminds one of the answer
by a prominent Yale astronomer when asked whether it was pos-
sible for the atomic bomb to destroy the earth. “Suppose it does,”
said the scientist with a casual shrug, “it isn’t as if the earth were a
major planet.”

Sic transit gloria mundi!

WILLIAM ROSSMOORE

 

HOME ADpRESS: 3 Greenview Way, Upper Montclair, N.J.

oFFice appress: Gross, Richardson, Koenigsberg & Rossmoore, 744 Broad St.
Newark 2, N.J.

PREPARED aT: Fieldston School, Riverdale, N.Y,

YEARS IN OOLLEGE: 1938-1940, DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 19403 LL.B. (Co-
lumbia Univ.), 1947.

mareieD: Anne Tracy, June 24, 1938 (divorced 1953); Barbara Brodsky, Nov-
13, 1953. CHILDREN: Susan Tracy, June 25, 1946: Laura Elizabeth, July 21

19553 Emily Sara, Nov. 8, 1956; Katherine Cornelia, July 11, 1960
occupation: Lawyer, ’ .

oFFices HELD: Democratic County Committeeman, Essex County, N.J., 1954-573

[ 1130 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

member, executive committee, New Jersey State Committee Against Dis-
crimination in Housing, 1960-64.

MEMBER OF: American, New York State and Essex County Bar Associations,
New York County Lawyers Association; American Trial Lawyers Asso-
ciation; Lawyer Pilots Association; Aircraft Owners & Pilots Association;
Paramus Flying Club; Provincetown Art Association, Harvard Club of
New Jersey; American Contract Bridge League.

puBLICATIONS: Articles in law publications.

TWENTY-FIVE years is a long time to have passed so quickly. 1
assume that this reflects a personally felt interest and excitement in
these years which the mere recording of events does not express.

After graduation I spent two and a half years with the federal

government, meeting many other Harvard men who had also
majored in economics, and therefore thought themselves well
qualified to show their fellow countrymen the way to manage the
economy and later the war effort. Starting in the Department of
Agriculture and winding up in the Office of Price Administration,
the work carried a sense of importance and a proximity to activites
which had widespread effect on the lives of all.

Then followed a two-and-a-half-year stint with the Army Air
Force, concluding as a B-17 pilot with the rsth Air Force in Italy.
To these years I owe what I consider to be a healthy cynicism and a
certain skill as a pilot which I’ve put to more pleasurable use in
recent years.

With the help of the G.I. Bill, I then went to Columbia Law School
and since have enjoyed the vagaries of a general law practice. As I
write this, I am in the process of forming a new partnership which
we hope will add further stimulus and other more tangible rewards.
In any event, I have received much satisfaction from the occasional
cases involving civil rights and liberties and related fields of legal

and civic activity in which I have been involved over the years.

Along the way I’ve surrounded myself with women, including a
wife (the second, that is) and four delightfully sparkling daughters
to all of whom I attribute the swift passage of many of the years.
They, together with a summer house in Provincetown, a small sail-
boat, bridge and frequent turns as a pilot of begged, borrowed or

rented aircraft, constantly compete with the law business for atten-
tion.

[1131]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

HOWARD PHILPOTT ROUNSEFELL

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 112 School St., Wayland, Mass.
% y 3

JAMES AYER ROUSMANIERE

 

HOME Aporess: 81 Irving St., Cambridge, Mass. 02138.

OFFICE AppRESS: Wadsworth House, Harvard University, Cambridge, Mass.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: AB. 1940; LL.B. 1943 (47).

marriep: Jessie Broaddus Pierce, April 17, 1943. cHmpren: John P., March 10,
1944; James Ayer, Jr, and Peter F, (twins), March 25, 1945; David M.,
Jan. 20, 1949; Joseph B., Aug. 20, 1950, Edmund B., July 20, 1954; Arthur 5.
Feb. 12, 1957; Katherine B., Nov. 5, 1958.

HARVARD SONS: James Ayer Rousmaniere, Jr., 67; Peter F, Rousmaniere, °68.

occupation: Educational administration, executive director, Harvard College
stcsanne oF: University Club of Washington, D.C. Cold Spring Harbor Beach
Club, Beverly Yacht Club.
SURVIVING World War II as an Army staff officer, I completed
[1132]

2§5TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard Law School while getting “broken in” as a father of three
sons.

Life in California beckoned in 1947 and my future in the West
seemed assured as legal counsel for Food Machinery Corporation
in San Jose. Within two years, however, I had been reassigned twice
and landed in Cincinnati with five sons. After four years in Ohio,
where John Rowe, Ben Fuller and Harris Weston were in the area,
we moved to Philadelphia, just long enough to see Hoyt Watson and
then to Long Island. The family was now increased by two sons and
finally a daughter. Arthur Page, Howie Turner, Eric Ridder and
Julian Lazrus were nearby.

While I had been often in Harvard Club activities, these led in-
directly now to active political efforts for the Democrats in Nassau
County and the election of E. H. Nickerson, ’41, gave me the op-
portunity of serving on the County Planning Commission.

In February, 1962, I left the chemical business, politics and New
York for Cambridge to become a fund raiser for the College,
where I now serve with considerable satisfaction.

Education and politics both demand the attention of every adult
American. I hope to apply myself to these in the future. I “deeply
regret the loss to the country of John F. Kennedy and I shall always
hope that I and others will continue to be inspired to public service
by his example.

ARTHUR TRACY ROW, JR.

 

HOME ADpREss: 36 Elizabeth Rd., Hamden, Conn.
OFFICE appress: Yale University, New Haven, Conn,
PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

frrzz]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. ¢”m” laude, 1940; M.C.P., 1948; A.M.
Hon. (Yale Univ.), 1961.
marriep: Anne Ogle Shivers, Nov. 25, 1943. CHILDREN: Peter Lyman, Sept. 25,

1944; Arthur Tracy, 3d, Oct. 18, 1945; David Winship, Aug. 31, 1949;
Gordon Tayloe, May 1, 1962.

HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Clarence Row, °42.
occupation: Professor of city planning, Yale University.
orrices HELD: President-elect, Association of Collegiate Schools of Planning;

member, Alumni Council, Harvard Graduate School of Design Associa-
tion,

member OF: American Institute of Planners (AM).

pupnicaTions: The Detroit Metropolitan Area Traffic Study, co-author, 1953;
The Physical Development Plan, City of Philadelphia, co-author, 1960;
A Reconnaissance of the Tri-State Region (Connecticut, New Jersey,
New York), 1963; various articles on urban planning and development.

BEING back in a university (the other one) may account for the
apparent compression of time. 1 must have lived some of the past
twenty-five years concurrently. Evidence is the youthful aspect of
wife Anne and the omnipresence in domestic time and space of two-
year-old son Gordon. This last may partially explain why first son
Peter has left the household to make his life as a folk singer and
second son Tracy has chosen to go as far away as the University of
Arizona, The fact that David is only fifteen minutes away at board-
ing school (Choate) may appear to contradict the first generation
attitude of his brothers, but this is easily explained — David doesn’t
trust his parents to bring up Gordon without his help.

Perhaps I should explain how I got into this fix— the university
one 1 mean. In terms of intensity of commitment, my time has
largely been spent in the profession of city planning. This ignores
the almost seven years spent in the Navy in World War II and the
Korean War, but, although I have a nostalgic identification with the
Navy, it is a discrete and completed part of my post-college life
which is no different in substance than that of numerous classmates.

I returned to Cambridge at Christmas time in 1945 determined to
fill out what I felt was an unbalanced and incomplete education. This
simple objective turned out to be impossible; 1 was informed that
there was no place in post-war Harvard for a person seeking mere
education, only for persons seeking degrees, How does a person
with a vague goal of working for the public focus on a degree pro-
gram? Fired by Professor Morris Lambie’s statement that our

generation would rebuild the cities of the world, I gambled on a de-
gree in city planning. Accepted as a trial student for one term, I have
been at this business ever since. For the munificent salary of $3500

[ 1134]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

a year, I went to Portland, Maine, in 1948 as planning director for the
city. In retrospect, although I think I accomplished something, |
know that I learned more from Portland than I gave them in return,

despite the salary.
In the spring of 1953 (after a second Navy stint) I entered a new

world of planning. In 1948 planning was ninety percent evangelism

and ten percent planning. In 1953 planning was preparing an express-

way plan for Metropolitan Detroit that was going to be built, it was
no longer a question of evangelism; it was a question of doing as well
as possible a professional task. Under the leadership of ‘Douglas
Carroll (M.C.P. 747, Ph.D. ’s50) we accomplished two things: a plan
which is well along the way toward completion on the ground, an
advancement of the scientific understanding of how cities usually
function, making an early use of electronic data processing tech-
niques.

In the fall of 1955, we moved to Philadelphia where I undertook a
new task as assistant director (technical) of the Planning Commis-
sion — preparation of a comprehensive physical development plan
for the city. What a time to enter into the work of that old city!
Mayor Clark was concluding his term as Mayor, the first reform
term, and within months was succeeded by his colleague, Richard-
son Dilworth. Where Clark had concentrated on an array of govern-
mental reforms and had greatly strengthened the groundwork in
planning for the renewal program, Dilworth made the reconstruc-
tion of the city the keystone of his administration. We finished the
comprehensive plan in 1960. In the meantime, most of the werk on
a Center City Development Plan was completed and the city's entire
renewal program was expanded and deepened.

In 1961 we moved again, this time to New Haven and Yale where
I am presently serving as professor of city planning and chairman of
the Department of City Planning in the School of Art and Architce-
ture. To recoup the winter’s teaching losses and to maintain cur-
rency in a rapidly changing field, I have done consulung for Bos.
ton, New York, New Haven, Baltimore and the U.S. Depardnent of

Commerce.

[ 1135 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JOHN JAY ROWE, JR.

      

HOME ADpREsS: 4905 Burley Hills Rd., Cincinnati, Ohio 45243.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Procter & Gamble Co., P.O. Box 599, Cincinnati, Ohio 45201.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarrieD; Diana Victoria Cutler, Jan. 11, 1941. CHILDREN: Sandra Victoria, May
4 1942; John Jay, 3d, Sept. 25, 1946; Susan Sherlock, Oct. 17, 1948, Grace
Probasco, Dec. 25, 1951; Priscilla Cutler, March 29, 1954 (died June 1g,

1954).

HARVARD BROTHER: William Stanhope Rowe, 2d, ’39.

occuPaTioN: Manufacturing; division manager, purchasing.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Spring Grove Cemetery, since 1955,
Planned Parenthood Association of Cincinnati, since 1964.

MEMBER OF: Camargo Club; Commonwealth Club; Seven Hills Corporation.

HEREWITH a kaleidoscopical review of five unplanned five-year
plans. :

1, World War I] —no shots in anger. Short sessions at Atlantic
City (ten feet below the bottom rung of the ladder as an unassigned
private in a 50,000-man ‘Basic Training Center). On to Miami
Beach, Harvard Business School, India, China, for two years’ Air
Transport Command, slightly AWOL on return through Camp
Kilmer (Can you be AWOL if you aren’t caught?) and out as
captain, AUS AC.

2. Procter & Gamble—fats and oils purchasing — maternity
wards — Chicago and Lake Forest — the classic commute with the
world’s greatest newspaper (not the adjective I would use to de-
scribe),

3. The Queen City of the Middle West ~ mostly an education in
volunteer fund raising. The rise of the in-plant solicitation of
money for charity — not strictly voluntary giving — sort of an end
ustifying the means — probably better than Washington Welfare.

[ 1136 ]

—_|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

4. ‘Travel — paid for via the Expense Account and capital liquida-
tion account. A. proliferation of parents weekends, Dad's Days,
even Pop Hops (Ugh!).

5. Discovery of skiing, and houseboating on the Ohio River.
Disenchantment with Cambridge. Is it really a 90% Democratic
(Party) sexually integrated brain factory?

EDWARD DAVIS ROWLEY

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 117 Woodland Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass. 02167.

EDWARD RUBIN

 

HOME AppRESS: Box 2483, Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania

OFFICE ADDRESS: President’s Office, Central Fstablishments Dis ewon, Bow agi
Dar es Salaam, United Republic of Tanzania (Tanganyika)

PREPARED AT: Los Angeles High School, Los Angeles, Calif.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREE: A.By 1940.

[ 1137]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

marriep: Jean Howe Woolley, Aug. 7, 1939. cHiLpren: Karen Emily, Dec. 1,
1941; Christopher James David, Feb. 15, 1944; Lisa Ann, June 11, 1951.
occupation: Program specialist, the Ford Foundation, assigned as staff develop-
ment adviser to the Government of Tanzania (formerly Tanganyika).
OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Santa Monica Canyon Democratic Club, 1961-63;

vice-president, Santa Monica Canyon Civic Association, 1959-60.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Southern California; Harvard Business School
Club of Southern California, American Civil Liberties Union; Museum
Association of Southern California; Tanganyika Cultural Society.

pusLicaTions: Manpower and Aid: Proceedings, University of East Africa Con-
ference on Public Policy, 1964; Government Printer, Dar es Salaam.

1 GOT through college a year early, married my high school sweet-
heart, and went to law school at the University of California,
Berkeley. In two years there 1 made some lifelong friends and the
discovery that the law was not for me. With the coming of our
first-born and World War II, I went to work as a shipfitters’ helper
in the Union Iron Works in San Francisco. The shipbuilding in-
dustry exploded on the West Coast and opportunity with it. 1 was
lucky enough to participate in the application of new management
techniques which revolutionized the industry, as a planner, chief
planning engineer, and finally technical assistant to the manager of
one of Kaiser yards. This meteor sputtered out when I was drafted
as a private in the clean-up of those under twenty-six in 1944.

For those who wonder what a degree in psychology does for one,
I was assigned to the Adjutant General’s Corps and did job analysis,
interviewing, and other safe but frustrating personnel work for
two years.

After the war we returned to Los Angeles, I stayed in the man-
agement field: the first six years in building at Kaiser Community
Homes and as business manager for Victor Gruen Associates; the
last twelve in aerospace-electronics at the Marquardt Corporation
and at Wyle Laboratories.

In the whole experience, two kinds of opportunities repeated
themselves. The first was the chance to learn management by
working directly for a number of outstanding people. One was
Russel Koons of the shipyard days, who. demonstrated and taught
fundamentals of administration in a way that lasted. Another was
Victor Gruen, who knew he had a major contribution to make to
architecture and showed me in making it the elements of personal
leadership. Frank Wyle made his managers grow by pouring on
the responsibility, keeping them stretching to meet new goals. The

second was the chance to work in growth fields where the pace and

[1138]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

change of scale thrust one into new situations and compressed normal
working experience. Thus, at Marquardt I got enough middle man-
agement experience to be able to move to higher management at
Wyle Laboratories and, with a corporate expansion, to the presi-
dency of a Wyle subsidiary, Liberty Electronics Corporation.

Thanks to J. Agoos, C-Entry-Winthrop, I developed an interest
in New Orleans Jazz, and in San Francisco (1941-44) we were in
the middle of the jazz revival, getting involved as much as one can
without playing. Great nights with Lu Watters and the Yerba
Buena Jazz Band, ending up driving straight to the shipyards, to put
my Brooks suit in my tool locker in exchange for a tin hat and
overalls.

Los Angeles brought quieter pleasure. We have lived since 1952 in
Santa Monica Canyon a few miles from UCLA. Our children went
to various public and private schools in the area, and the two oldest
are now at UCLA and USC, respectively. Their mother was
graduated a few years ahead of them: A.B., sociology, UCLA, 1942.
It was good to feel close to the college again. We ‘made some close
friends in the faculty, and we thoroughly enjoyed her graduation
(I had thought myself in too much of a hurry to stay for my own),
Our ties to UCLA have another dimension. The development of
the Westwood campus has made a qualitative difference in life in
Los Angeles. There is a large and sophisticated extension coun
program which has brought into community life artists, writers,
and others who had previously hidden out in the sunshine. M anv of
the drama, art, and music events are first class. It’s been said that one
could retire with a subscription to the Weekly Calendar of Fyents
and be fulfilled.

Then why this “letterhead” from Tanganyika? Tcould cite UCLA
again, where at a seminar in Problems of Emerging Nations the Fast
and Central African representative of the Ford Foundation outhned
their work in this part of the world. I liked the Foundation’s ap-
proach of answering a developing country’s request for people to
work directly in the government on the country’s own pling, ore
deeply, I had felt for some time that I had devoted enough ef ny

life to the cold war and the missile gap. IT believe that closing the
“have not-have” gap is far more meaningful and far more ithe.
And so since February of 1964 I have been assiened by Ford to che
Establishments Division of the Tanganyika Civil Service ay the sea
development adviser. My work is primarily Africanvation of the
service, associated training programs, and more etTective use of per

[ 1139 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

sonnel through improved policies, organization, and procedures. It’s
a new world where you can help shape policies that can affect the
whole nation-building effort, and it calls on all one’s resources.

Jean has been here since June, our older two for the summer, and
our youngest is experiencing a new world of her own at Kenya
High School in Nairobi, We all hope to meet at the Twenty-fifth
next June. I’ve been back for only brief visits, and the classmates
I've kept in touch with have meant the more: roommates Dick Hemp,
Emrys Harris, and John Edgerton, Bob Glaser, Sam Herman; Ed
Daniels, and, while he lived in Los Angeles, Dave Sheppard.

BILLINGS RUDDOCK

 

MAILING Abowtss: 284 Arbolado Drive, Arcadia, Calif,

+ PHILIP pe NEUFVILLE RUPRECHT

 

pork: June 22, 1918, New York, N-Y. parents: Ludwi h
Edna Alfke. wig Theodore Ruprecht,

[1140 ]

__]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarriED: Elizabeth F. Martin, Sept. 26, 1945, Detroit, Mich.
piep: Oct. 7, 1947, Detroit, Mich.

AFTER graduation Ruprecht spent two years at the University of
Pennsylvania Law School and then entered the Air Force as a
weather observer. Ordered to Officers Candidate School, he re-
ceived his commission, was later promoted to the rank of first lieuten-
ant and trained for overseas service. In December, 1945, he became
historical officer at the Richmond Army Air Base. He was survived
by his wife.

LESTER RICH RUSOFF

 

HOME ADDRESS: 835 E. Beckwith, Missoula, Mont.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Law School, Montana State University, Missoula, Mont.

PREPARED AT: Tiffin Columbian High School, Tiffin, Ohio,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; LL.B. cton laude,
1943; LLM. (Univ. of Michigan), 1952.

marrieD: Marilyn M. Meier, March 12, 1949, cHILpreN: Anne Christine, Jan.
30, 1950; David Michael, July 5, 1953.

occupation: Professor of law; I also direct an annual tax institute sponsored by
this law school for lawyers, accountants, insurance men, and trust othcers.

OFFICES HELD: President, Missoula County Democratic Club, 1964; member,
executive committee, Western Montana Fish and Game Association (cur-
rently and for a couple of years back); executive officer, Hellgate Civilian
Shooters Association (currently and for several years back).

MEMBER OF: Missoula Unitarian Fellowship.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles and book reviews in law reviews,

AFTER finishing law school in 1943, I started as a law clerk doing the
work of a price attorney with the regional O.P.A. in Boston. Vhere

[rr4r]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

I worked chiefly on problems relating to prices of food and spent
some time commuting to Worcester to serve as acting district price
attorney. .

While in O.P.A. I decided to specialize in tax work and then moved
to Ropes and Gray in Boston, where I worked on pension and profit-
sharing trusts and various tax problems. After the war ended I
worked briefly in New York for a small law firm and then in
Washington for the Tax Court of the United States.

From February, 1948, through August, 1957, I taught taxation and
other courses at the law school of the University of Toledo, Toledo,
Ohio, with one year out for graduate work at the University of
Michigan. In 1957 I moved to Montana State University where I
have been to the present.

My present hobby is thinking about hunting, fishing and photog-
raphy and occasionally engaging in such activities, as well as exercis-
ing my dogs, an aging Brittany spaniel and a young German short-
haired pointer, I reload ammunition for my daughter and myself
for hunting and target practice and sometimes tie my own flies for
fishing.

My wife and I are somewhat active in politics and experience the
joys and frustrations of knowing our politicians better than we would
if we lived in a larger city.

DON JOHN RUSSELL

 

MAILING appress: 716 Orchard Rd., Hagerstown, Md.

’

[1142]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ALEXANDER MICHAEL RUTENBURG

 

HOME aAppreEss: 6 Elba St., Brookline, Mass. 02146.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 330 Brookline Ave., Boston, Mass. 02215.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; M.D. (New York
Univ.), 1943.

MARRIED: Selma Hyde, June 7, 1948. CHILDREN: Jeanne, Nov. 17, 1950; Richard,
June 27, 1952; Karen, Oct. 25, 1954, Nina, April 26, 1956.

occupation: General surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor of surgery and tutor in medical sciences,
Harvard Medical School; associate director of surgical research, Beth
Israel Hospital, lecturer in surgery, Boston University School of Medicine.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery; American College of Surgeons,
Sigma Xi; Massachusetts Medical Society; Harvard Chemists, National
Board of Medical Examiners; American Association for Cancer Research;
New York Academy of Sciences; Histochemical Society; American So-
ciety for Cell Biology; Society for Experimental Biology and Medicine,
Infectious Disease Society of America; American Sociery for Micro-
biology; International Society of Chemotherapy; American Nunmusmatiec
Association; Museum of Science; Museum of Fine Arts; Sturbridge Vil-
lage Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Twenty-two articles, the most recent of which are: “Scrune
Glutamyl Transpeptidase Activity in Hepatobiliary Panereatic Discaw.”
with J. A. Goldbarg and E, P. Pineda, Gastroenterology, 1943; “The Role
of Oxacillin in the Management of Staphylococcal Infections,” with EL
L. Greenberg, Journal of the American Medical Association, 1Ay, “A
Study of Serum Peptidases in Anicteric Patients with Cancer,” with F. P.
Pineda, J. Fischbein and J. A. Goldbarg, Cancer, 1963; “A Comparnen

of Serum Aminopeptidase and Alkaline Phosphatase in the Detection of
Hepatobiliary Disease in Anicteric Patients,” with B. Mi. Banky F. P.
Pineda and J. A. Goldbarg, Annals of Internal Medicine, why.

FROM the Chemistry Laboratories at Harvard I ventured forth
during the prewar years of 1940 and 1941 as a medical student inte

[ 1143 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

the vast expanses of Bellevue Hospital and New York City, East
Side.

The years at N.Y.U. College of Medicine were full and happy.
My last two of medical school were completed in the early part of
World War II as a private rst class in the Army Specialized Train-
ing Program with the benefits and evils inherent in this program.
After graduation from medical school I spent twenty-seven months
as surgical house officer and resident in urology at the Beth Israel
Hospital and as resident in surgery at the Montefiore Hospital in
Pittsburgh. 1 then embarked on the long haul of completing my
training in general surgery, as assistant resident, research fellow and
chief resident in surgery at the Beth Israe] Hospital in Boston.

This exciting period was interrupted by a two-year hitch in the
Army Medical Corps. I was assigned to the Transportation Corps
at the San Francisco Port of Embarkation. Except for four months
in the Plastic and Hand Surgery Unit at Dibble General Hospital
the balance of my military career was very dull and undistinguished.
I processed military personnel for overseas duty, inspected military
kitchens and kept the C.O.’s garden free from tulip-eating moles.

I completed the residency program in surgery at the Beth Israel
in 1951, qualified for the American Board of Surgery and was certi-
fied as diplomate. In 1952 I was elected a fellow of the American
College of Surgeons. In 1951 I entered the private practice of general
surgery with my office at the Beth Israel Hospital, where I am senior
visiting surgeon and associate director of surgical research. My pro-
fessional life is currently divided into three parts: clinical practice,
research and teaching.

My research activities have dealt with quantitative and histo-
chemical studies of various enzymes in blood, urine and tissues in
health and disease with particular emphasis on patients with cancer
and various gastro-intestinal disorders. Interest in antibiotics and
cancer chemotherapeutic agents came during a period of major
breakthroughs in these areas. Basic bacteriological and clinical
studies in surgical infections and chemotherapy yielded fertile areas
for research as reflected by approximately 150 publications in
various scientific and medical journals.

I have been active in various professional and research societies and
annually manage to attend five—six meetings held in the larger
cosmopolitan centers.

In addition to private practice and research I have teaching re-
sponsibilities in general surgery at Harvard Medical School where

[ 1144 ]

—_______|

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I have an appointment as assistant professor of surgery. I am also
lecturer in surgery at Boston University School of Medicine.

My vocation is the clinical practice of general surgery. In this
I’ve acquired skill and facility and a deep sense of personal satisfaction
in dealing successfully with various surgical disorders.

In twenty-five years I have lost only my hair but have gained
much including a family, a house, a satisfying profession and an
interest in medico-legal matters, the stock market and numismatics.

My family includes my lovely wife Selma, a gifted physician and
investigator with a penchant for 18th-century art and furniture, and
four children, Jeanne, Richard, Karen, and Nina who are interested
in Beatles, architecture, boys and cats, respectively.

My own extracurricular activities have been directed toward fish-
ing and acquiring choice collections of British and American stamps
and coins.

The days and the years have sped by rapidly and it seems only
yesterday that I left Cambridge equipped with a diploma, a sound
knowledge of organic chemistry of that era, and a keen anticipa-
tion for the study of medicine.

EDWARD HECKERT RYACK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 135 Freeman St., Brookline, Mass. 02146.
OFFICE appREss: Ryack Coat Front Corp., 888 Washington St, Boston, Mass,
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B 1940.

MARRIED: Phyllis T. Gordon, June 18, 1950, cHitp: Joan Nancy, Dee. t, tse.
HARVARD BROTHER: Leon Ryack, °35.

occuPATION: President, Ryack Coat Front Corporation, manufacturing inter:
linings,

[1145 ]

ee -

HARVARD CLASS OF 1 940

MOST of my waking hours since graduation have been devoted to
overseeing the fortunes of a small family enterprise. There has been
the usual military interlude. Other things must have taken place

during these long twenty-five years, but they are either too remote
to recall or too unimportant to list.

Perhaps immodestly, | might mention the fact that I am the hus-
band of a splendid wife and the father of an adorable daughter.

In the hope that detailing my convictions will yield some worth-
while information about me, I list the following—- though not
necessarily in the order of their significance:

My wife tells me I am a Democrat at heart, but that I haven’t the
initiative to register as one. Although the preponderance of evi-
dence seems to support her accusation, I insist that I could easily vote
for (possibly even campaign for) any as well-qualified Republican
candidate — for local dog catcher.

I must confess to an extreme bias against the social inequities
infesting our land. This bias is not so extreme, however, that it
impels me to a role of personal involvement. After all, extremism
in one’s thoughts may not be nice, but moderation in effecting them
cannot hurt you.

ROBERT WHITING RYAN
ens,

  

  

HOME Appress: 12518 Mossycup, Houston, Texas,
OFFICE apprEss: Offshore Co., 609 Esperson Bldg., Houston, Texas.
PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; M.B.A

yes . 1942.
MARRIED: Virginia Caid Carson, June 4, 1943. CHILDREN: nai

a : e
1946; Molly Virginia, Aug. 30, 1954. Janice Caid, Sept, 7,
occupation: Oil well drilling; vice-president and secretar -treas
Company. yorcasurer, Offshore
[ 1146 ]}

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

oFFIces HELD: Chairman, Accounting and Taxation Committee, American At
sociation of Oil Well Drilling Contractors; member, Tax Committees, Mid-

Continent Oil & Gas Association.
MEMBER OF: Elouston Club; Sherwood Forest Country Club.

AN account of twenty-five years following graduation can be con-

cise inasmuch as the time appears brief.
The two years following graduation were spent at the Business

School followed by a period of approximately four years in the
Army, largely in Australia, New Guinea and the Philippines. After
a short period in suburban Boston, a move to the Southwest fol-
lowed and association with the oil industry. Several moves and
firms later, I became connected with the Offshore Company, an oil
well drilling firm with drilling operations in marine areas in the
Western Hemisphere and land and marine drilling operations in the
Eastern Hemisphere. This association resulted in my becoming con-
nected with a series of fascinating developments. Operations in
Central and South America, Europe, Africa and the Middle East, as
well as in the United States, led to frequent travel in all of these
areas. In the course of this work, I acquired some familiarity with
operating businesses in various countries, especially tax and financial
matters. The work continues to be intriguing, the education also

continues.
To sum up the twenty-five years, my major acquisition would be

my wife and two daughters, neither of whom has the slightest in-
terest in east coast education, but only in the University of Texas.
I also acquired a broadened interest in the “emerging nations.”
This interest has not led to any solutions, but many questions.

The results of twenty-five years are not what I contemplated, but

more than I expected.

[ 1147 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

RUSSELL JAY RYAN, JR.

  

p Amara: mtr Spring Mill Rd Indianapolis, Ind,

t Atoara Thompson, O'Neal & Smith, tooo Circle Tower, Indianapolis,
md.

arp at) Park School, Indianapolis, Ind,

aN toting. tyid-tygo, peomes ap, ct laude, tygo, tue. (Univ. of
Pehijeand, tage.

rm» Glora Cate, Feb. a4, ggo. camo: Michael Cole, Jan. aa, 19st;
ing Lathrop, Dees aa today Timothy Knoll, May 24, 1955,

specie Juba Lathrop Ryan, "43.

amas: Attorney,

WILLIAM ARTHUR RYAN

    

/
atxy, Surpet Road, Samford, Conn, ofge3.

mess: tte Badford St. Stamford, Conn, o6go5,

ats Looanis School Windsor, Conn.

AWLeek: tgy6-t9ih pecReES: $B) MaocM. (McGill Univ.).

Anne Clark Raymond, July 24 1954. cuttpren: Nancy Lyn, Oct. 15,
Witham Archur, Jr, Spe 6 1957.

[1148]

_]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occuparion: General surgeon.
memasr oF: Stamford Yacht Club; Greenwich Country Club.

POSTGRADUATE surgical training was carried out at the Mon-
treal General, the Montreal Children’s and Bellevue Hospitals (N.Y.).
During World War Il — P.T.O.; two years as a paratrooper, bat-
talion surgeon and C.O. of the 2215¢ Medical Corps, 11th Airborne
Division. .

Took off to Kenya and Tanganyika in ’56 on a hunting safari but
otherwise stay close to my family and surgery.

BROOKS RYDER

 

WOME AND OFFICE ADoRFSs: American Embassy, Addis Ababa, Ethiopia.

putpanrp at: North Attleboro High School, North Attleboro, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGF: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; M.D. (Tufts Coll.), 1043;
M.p.H. (Harvard Univ.), 1948.

maruipo: Claire F. MacIntyre, Dec. 23, 1943 (divorced 1956); Cynthia Ann
Palmer, May 27, 1957. CHILDREN: Ann, Aug. 26, 1958; Priscilla, March 17,
1960, Penelope, Oct. 20, 1961; Phyllis, Oct. 9, 1963.

eocuvatios: Director, Demonstration and Evaluation Project, Ministry of
Public Health, Ethiopia, Public Health Physician, Agency for Interna-
tonal Development, Department of State.

ores HELD: Epidemiologist and district health officer, Massachusetts Depart-
ment of Public Health, 1946-50, administrator, Bingham Associates Pro-
gram, Boston, 1950-53; commissioner of health, Quincy, Mass. 1953-56;
director, Haile Selassie I Public Health College and Training Center,
Gondar, Ethiopia, 1956-60; chief, Public Health Advisor, Bamcho, Mali,
and Quagadougou, Haute Volta, 1960-63.

MEMBER OF: American Public Health Association (fellow); Royal Society of
Tropical Medicine and Hygiene (fellow); American Socicty of Tropical
Medicine and Hygiene.

[ 1149 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

CHESTER FRANK SAGENKAHN

 

poress: 110 Woodside Drive, Syracuse, N.Y.

sopress: Sagenkahn Furniture Galleries, Inc, 421 S. Warren St, Syra-
N.Y,

‘AT: EF. L. Meyers High School, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.

COLLEGE! 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.By 1940.

I'sther Copeland, Sept. 24, 1939. CHILDREN: NannC, Aug. 29, 1942;
T.. June 4, 1947; Dava I, July 5, 1951.

n: Retail furniture; interior design.

“ip: Member of board, 1948-54, president, 1952-54, Dunbar Center,
ct, board of trustees, Temple Adath Yeshurin, 1951-55; president,
8’ Foundation of Syracuse, 1953-54; vice-president, Jewish Com-
> Center, 1952-53; president, vice-president, secretary-treasurer,
d Club of Syracuse, 1949-64; member, board of directors, Metro-
National Bank, 1964.
> National Society of Interior Designers; Citizens’ Foundation of
’; Harvard Club of Syracuse; Everson Museum; Lafayette Coun-
»; Syracuse Chamber of Commerce; Jay-Cees “Man-of-the-Year”
lub.

been married since September of 1939 and having spent
o-term honeymoon at Harvard, I embarked from gradua-
lesser swagger and a much more positive and determined
id no preconceived notion of what our future might be,
nd I were predestined to return to Syracuse where my
cttled while I was in college and enter the commercial
J, My hopes were to develop an interior design depart-
the framework of our furniture business. Time has
> events of our first few years, but they were challeng-
Way, since we became part of a community that was
us. I very quickly realized that I wanted to take as

community activities as I possibly could, retailing not-

[ 1150 ]

_

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

withstanding. Somewhere along the line, I had picked up a great
feeling of responsibility for the world at large, and I found time for
what I now suspect was an extra-large slice of work in this area. My
wife was more than cooperative and began to do her share in an even
greater way by taking a community responsibility and, in addition,
bearing NannC, our first child, on August 29, 1942.

Our personal progress was delayed considerably, as it was with so
many of us, when I received my invitation to join the Armed
Forces. I served dutifully for a short time with an Infantry regi-
ment and was more fortunate than most in that I did not see active
duty and served only eight months, four days, and eleven minutes.
I feel no unpatriotic twinge when I say that I didn’t like it at all.

I happily picked up my life, my family, business, and friends in
1946 and accepted the most difficult total work and community serv-
ice schedule that I could sustain. And, in retrospect, I realize that
I enjoyed the years until 1954 more than any other similar period,
In that time, Esther was kind enough to present us with a fine son
and another wonderful daughter, and we have participated in all the
beauty and turmoil that is inherent in the raising of a vigorous family.

In the last ten years, my own activity in the design field has be-
gun to reach the point that I had hoped for. I am largely involved
with residential designing, but from time to time I have taken on
some interesting work in executive offices and, only recently, have
designed an entire bank. Which leads me to a fabulous experience
that has recently been mine. I am a founder and a director of the
Metropolitan National Bank of Syracuse, whose doors opened in
October of 1964. The opening of the bank was the culmination of
two years of intensive research and work on the part of a small group

of quite young men, all of whom were as much as ten and twelve
years younger than J. Although J had no aspirations to become in-
volved deeply in the banking field, I needed a complete education
in this area and found it a very different atmosphere from the one in
which I normally work. The problems, the questions and answers in
this field are in a very different library reference from my own.

Almost at the very moment that I am writing this, Esther and I are
informed, charmingly, that our daughter, NannC, now twenty-two,
is going to be married in June. J am not so sure that I am quite ready
for this and the many things that will ensue but, chronologically, I
should be.

I am fortunate to be blessed with a sense of humor; I really like
people, although I must admit that I struggle more and more to

[rrsr ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

understand them. They are becoming much more complex, or my
own curiosity is making them seem so, At any rate, I realize that I
have embraced a simple philosophy of life, and no great benefits will
inure to the large society from that fact that I have been here since
i919. 1 wish that I could do something that would improve the
world’s physical and mental health, its social well-being, its economic
stability. 1 wish that I could be responsible for the creation of a
better feeling of man toward man. I wish that I could do any one or

all of these things, not to proclaim that I had done it, but simply
that it were done,

PETER SALVUCCTI, JR. .

 

HOME AopRESS: 41 Woodridge Rd., Wayland, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: §5 Pond St., Waltham, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Waltham High School, Waltham, Mass,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

Mareten: Mary M. Quinn, Oct. 23, 1948.

occupation: Sole owner, business of buying, selling and renting used construc-
tion equipment.

orrices HELD: Member of corporation, Waltham Savings Bank.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Vokes Players, Inc. Wayland, Mass.;
Waltham Lodge of Elks.

WENT into my father’s road construction business in 1937. We
built roads, airports and dams, etc., throughout Massachusetts, New
Hampshire and Vermont. Was drafted in the Service in 1942. After
several months as an enlisted man, during which I attended one school
after another, was accepted into OCS. Was successful in this and
received my commission in the Corps of Engineers. Was sent to
California where it seems I had a special talent in organizing repair

[1152]

~___]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

crews for processing construction equipment for both military and
civilian use. At any rate I was kept at one location in California for
the duration.

Got married in October, 1948, to Mary M. Quinn and this is per-
haps the best thing I ever did. Kept on building roads, etc., until
about 1960. By this time I had had enough of the grind and decided
to get into the used construction equipment field, buying and selling.
It is interesting work primarily because I get to do a lot of traveling
often on a minute’s notice. It is amazing how much ground can be
covered in these jets. The work is fairly easy. Success depends upon
your word and your carrying out whatever guarantee you have made
to the buyer of the equipment. Nothing beats advertising like a
satisfied buyer.

Spent most of 1964 supervising the construction of our new house
in Wayland. It is the answer to all our dreams in spite of the big
mortgage. During the next ten years hope to squeeze in a round-
the-world trip with my wife, keep paying my bills and lead a
healthy normal life with the usual number of good cold dry martinis.

LOUIS HUGO SANTORO

 

HOME ADpRESS: 5532 Harold Way, Los Angeles, Calif.

OFFICE appress: USAF Auditor General, 1206 S. Maple Ave. Los Angetes
Calif.

PREPARED aT: Medford High School, Medford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREE: B.B.A. (Boston Univ.), 1949.
UNMARRIED.

occuPATION: C.P.A. (auditor with U.S. Air Force), currently, assistane chief of
Los Angeles Branch Office.

MEMBER OF: California Society of C.P.A.’s; Federal Government Accountants
Association.

[1153 ]

a eet ee es

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

BECAUSE of monetary reasons I could not finish my education at
Harvard. After quite a few years, interrupted by a short military
career, I received a B.B.A. from Boston University Evening College
of Business. About that time I moved west and ended up in Los
Angeles. After a couple of tries, I passed the C.P.A. exam and re-
ceived my certificate. A short whirl in the “Glamorous” Hollywood
life followed — mainly business management and income tax for
the “Stars.” This even included a year of law at a local university,
evenings. I became disenchanted with this life and decided to con-
tinue my regular profession — namely, auditing.
About twelve years ago I joined the auditing staff of one of the
military auditing departments and am still with the federal govern-
ment as assistant chief of the Los Angeles Branch Office of the

Auditor General of the Air Force. During that time | have acquired
neither wife nor offspring.

ERNEST JAMES SARGEANT

 

HOME aporess: 24 Highgate St, Wellesley Hills, Mass.
OFFICE AppRESs: Ropes & Gray, 50 Federal St., Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Lewis & Clark High School, Spokane, Wash,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1940; LL.B. magna cur
laude, 1943(47).

MARRIED: Héléne S. Kazanjian, Jan. 29, 1944.

occupATION: Lawyer; partner in law firm of Ropes & Gray, Boston.

orrices HELD: Director, Infrared Industries, Inc. Copper Range Company;
lecturer of law, Harvard Law School, Boston University Law School.

SINCE college graduation I have devoted three years to law school,

six years to active military service and fifteen years to private prac-

tice of law, during the last twenty-one years of which I have been

11154]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

married. My law practice has been with the same law firm and my
marriage with the same wife, I have no interest whatsoever in
changing either of them.

PAUL GEORGE SAURWEIN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4200 Congress St., Fairfield, Conn.

OFFICE AppREss: Socony Mobil Oil Co., 150 E. 42d St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Mount Hermon School, Mount Hermon, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.B.A., 1942.

MarrieD: Margaret Hammond, June 10, 1950. CHILDREN: Eric Sims, Nov. to,
1952 (died April 1, 1959); Margot, March 3, 1955, Lisa, June 6, toa,
George Karl, April 14, 1962.

occupation: New product development, corporate group, Secony Mobil Oil
Company.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to vice-president, 1945-50, Manager, purchasing te-
search, . 1950-55, American Cyanamid Company; assistant dircctor of
purchasing, 1955-59, manager, material and source development, tgtg-4y
Gillette Company; manager, product development, American Can Com-
pany, 1960-62.

TWENTY-FIVE years, we are all realizing, is a lot of water gone
by. In this time, I can look back on a number of interesting and
challenging responsibilities in material management and new produce
development.

After nearly four years in the U.S. Navy, I worked with Amenean
Cyanamid Company in New York ten years in new produce develop.
ment and materials supply problems. This was followed by avy yeses
in materials supply at Gillette in Boston and then new product ile-
velopment in New York with American Can and now Socony
Mobil. We have made a number of interesting industry “Pests” alang
the way, which is always exciting.

[115s]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

In the meantime, our family has grown and become very close,
with moments of joy and sadnesses, as all of us have known.

It is difficult to know what most to assign to Harvard over these
years, but perhaps most of all a need for fresh thinking and for
achievement comes near the top.

] am sure we all look forward to the next twenty-five with hope
and relish.

ALEXANDER PLAISTED SAXTON

 

MAILING aDprEss: 3 Lower Crescent, Sausalito, Calif.

+ GORDON WILLIAM SCHALL

 

BORN: April 1, 1917, San vu P .
*46, Kate Willis, Juan, Puerto Rico, parents: Charles Edward Schall,

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940,

[ 1156 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

marrieD: Helen O. Davis, June 18, 1940, Brattleboro, Vet. cmipaen: Alvin
Anthony, April 4, 1944; Pamela Gordon, July 20, 1947.
pep: Feb. 14, 1964, Greenwich, Conn.
wow: Mrs. Gordon W. Schall, 173 Parsonage Rd. Greenwich, Conn,
WHILE an undergraduate Schall was a resident of Fliot House,
member of Phillips Brooks House, Polo Club and Flying Club (presi-
dent) and member of the Red Book circulation board. After college
he spent a short time with the Crowell Publishing Company and then
joined the New York National Guard, but was discharged shortly
thereafter because of illness. During 1943-44, he was with Colonial
Airlines and for the next five years was associated with the Macthic-
son Chemical Company in New York City. In 1949 Schall joined
the Sinclair Refining Company where he was sales promotion
manager at the time of our Twentieth Report. He was survived by

his wife and children.

ISRAEL HERBERT SCHEINBERG

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5447 Palisade Ave., Bronx, N.Y. 10471.

orFicz Appress: Albert Einstein College of Medicine, 1300 Morris Park Ave.
Bronx, N.Y. 10461.

PREPARED AT: DeWitt Clinton High School, New York, N.Y,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., magia Ctom laude, Wao, MUM, ose
laude, 1943.

MarRIED: Tess Levine, June 22, 1952 (died May 28 1953); Denise Mangeras ire,
Jan. 26, 1957. CHILDREN: Anne, April 22, 19533 David, Sept, aa, tas, Cyn.
thia, May 2, 1963.

occuPATION: Physician; professor of medicine, Albert Einstein College of Merb-
cine, Yeshiva University.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Harvey Society, 1961-63, Vice-presnlent, Amera an
Society for Clinical Investigation, 1964-65.

MEMBER OF: American Socicty for Clinical Investigation, Awecuton of Amer

[1157 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ican Physicians; Boston Psychoanalytic Society and Institute, Inc. (affiliate
member); Harvey Society; Phi Beta Kappa; Alpha Omega Alpha.

puBLications: “Deficiency of Ceruloplasmin in Patients with Hepatolenticular
Degeneration (Wilson’s Disease),” with David Gitlin, Science, 1952; “Dif-
ferential Titration by Means of Paper Electrophoresis and the Structure of
Human Hemoglobins,” Proceedings of the National Academy of Science,
1954; “Copper Metabolism,” with Irmin Sternlieb, Pharmacological Re-
view, 1960; “Wilson’s Disease,” with Dr. Sternlieb, Annual Review of
Medicine, 1965 (in press).

AFTER leaving Cambridge, in that terrible June of 1940, I was off
to Harvard Medical School and so spared from the draft. My
medical training was not quite what it would have been in peace-
time: the news of Pearl Harbor came over the radio on Sunday as
I looked at pathology slides in my room at Vanderbilt Hall, many
of the faculty were off to the war, those of us without Naval Re-
serve commissions were persuaded to enlist, reluctantly, in the
Army’s Specialized Training Corps and live in a semi-militarized
Vanderbilt Hall with a drill sergeant who, at our first early morn
calisthenics, urged us to do our bit “to make this the best goddam
medical school in Boston.” We were accelerated into being gradu-
ated six months early and I spent the first nine months of 1944 as
a medical intern at the Peter Bent Brigham Hospital and the next
nine months sharing, with Bob Glaser alone, chores usually carried
out by half a dozen assistant residents in medicine. Then came a little
less than two years in the AUS, beginning between V-E and V-J
days, and spent in Pennsylvania, Maryland and Virginia.

During my Army life I was appointed a junior fellow and spent
1947 to 1950 living in Dunster House (where dining was strikingly
less luxurious than the Eliot House of ten years before), and work-
ing in the Department of Chemistry at M.LT. Simultaneously I
began what ultimately became eight years of psychoanalysis in the
midst of which I considered and rejected the possibility of becoming
an analyst instead of an internist interested in the chemistry of
proteins.

In the early summer of 1952, I married Tess Levine and we spent
two months in Geneva, where I was a consultant to the World
Health Organization, before returning to the States in time to vote
for Adlai Stevenson. In April, 1953, our daughter Anne was born;
in May my wife died, and I left Boston which had been my home
for seventeen years, to return to New York City and a dual position
at Columbia’s College of Physicians and Surgeons and the New York
State Psychiatric Institute.

[1158 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

In 1955 I moved to the newly founded Albert Finstcin College of
Medicine in the Bronx and in 1957 married Denise Mangravite. Que
son, David, was born in September, 1958, and daughter, Cynthia, mn
May, 1963, just before we left for a sabbatical year in the Dc
ment of Physics at the University of California, San Diego, at La
Jolla. What a wonderful sunlit year: a sabbaucal’s freedom fron
teaching and administrative chores, the excitement of brillant
physicists willing to teach a physician something of physics for the
sake of its application to biology; a part of the world where a swan
in the ocean was possible almost every lunch hour and where my
horse-loving wife could ride the magnificent thoroughbred of an
eccentric Mexican general six days a weck — it all made us wonder

why everybody didn’t live in Southern California, Yee back we
came last summer — dutifully and not quite sure why — to hive again
the frenetic, teeth-clenching, neck-stiffening life that New York
demands for the different kinds of excitement it provides J console
myself with the incredulous reaction of a friend of mine who saul,
when I considered moving to California for a position ten years
ago, “You can’t go—you have to live in New York — it's the
center of the world.” “But what about you?” [ answered. "You
live in Cambridge.” “Oh well,” he murmured, “Cambridge mn New

York.”

ARTHUR FREDERICK SCHIFF

aime.
me.
+

  

HOME Appress: 1910 S.VW. Seventh Ave. Miami, Fla. pista

OFFICE AppREsS! 1912 SAV. Seventh Ave, Miami, Pla, pyesy.

preparen aT: Haverhill High School, Haverhill, Mase,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DPGRPES: AB, Ingo, SOO. (Middlewee Uses F. tangy

mareten: Eva Gyori, June 3, 1994. caitomes: Maca, July & ngy4, Ma bacd Poeee,
Nov. 23, 1958.

( 1t59]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

occupation: Physician (general practitioner) ; deputy medical examiner, Dade
County, Florida.

MEMBER OF: Masons, Southwest Lodge, Miami, Fla.

pustications: “Three Fatal Anaphylactic Reactions Caused by Penicillin,” De-
cember, 1959, “Death Following Penicillin Injection,” August, 1961, Journal
of Florida Medical Association, “Fatal Anaphylactic Reactions Due to
Penicillin,” November, 1963, “The Dangerous Potential,” Current Medical
Digest, July 1963; “Suicide in Dade County,” Medical Times, October,
1964; “Some Legal Aspects of Blood Transfusion,” April, 1963, “It Is Not
As Safe As You Think,” December, 1962, “The Case for Cadaver Blood,”
September, 1964, Journal of Florida Medical Association.

SINCE our last Report, not an awful Jot has happened to the Schiff
menage other than A-G-E. The beautiful wife who is now assistant
professor of research at the University of Miami Medical School is
a little older, the children are of school age and a little more grown-
up (to wit, little adults) and I, alas, have gotten much grayer.

I remain in the general practice of medicine here in Miami doing
more geriatrics than pediatrics. I remain in the Dade County
Medical Examiner's office (making my eighth year as deputy medical
examiner) and, fortunately, I remain in the magnificent sunlight of
life, I have published many more medical articles and medical book
reviews and am, at present, peddling a new novel, Go Home In
Grief, which I am certain will sooner or later be picked up by some
publishing house.

Occasionally, I yearn for the delightful two years (1951-53) I
spent in the Far East Command as regimental surgeon, but the
devoted wife and Mara and Michael make up fully for whatever
of the past is lost. Here, 1 just happened to have a picture with me.
See Mara, now eight years old, a beautiful woman-child with wide
blue eyes, a nicely sculptured nose with a few dainty freckles, and.
lovely lips. If God were to say “How would you want her changed?
Name it and you can have it,” I'd answer Him, “Leave her just as she
is. Her beauty, her temperament and her spirit cannot be improved
on.”

And here is Michael, a handsome lad of six who is to manhood
what Mara is to womanhood. Straight, sturdy, eager and all boy.
Whenever I look at him I see an elfish smile on his round little face
and when sometimes our eyes meet I think 1 can see the man within
his soul,

Oh, and here is the wife, here in the middle, a true Hungarian
beauty, don’t you think?

But, as I said before, not an awful lot has happened,

[ 1160 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LOUIS SCHNEIDERMAN

 

HOME ApprEss: 830 Paradiso Ave., Coral Gables, Fla. 33146.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 823 Alfred I. duPont Bldg., Miami, Fla. 33131

PREPARED AT: Reading Senior High School, Reading, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. ¢U7 laude, 1940; LL.B, 1949.

marrieD: Doris Phoebe Schneiderman, Feb. 17, 1943. CHILDREN: Margo Ann,
July 6, 1948; Laura Joan, Aug. 22, 1952.
occupation: Attorney-at-law.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Law School Association of Florida, 1939-60.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Miami; Harvard Law School Association of
Florida.

GEORGE FREDERICK SCHRAFFT

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 50 Sutton PL, S.. New York, N.Y. 10022.

[ 1161]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

BERTRAM HENRY SCHUR

 

HOME AppRESS: 4000 Massachusetts Ave., N.W., Washington, D.C. 20016.

orFice appress: U.S. Atomic Energy Commission, Washington, D.C.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, 1940; LL.B. (Syracuse Univ.), 1945.

marrigp: Adelaide Bishop, June 7, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Associate general counsel, U.S. Atomic Energy Commission.

oFFices HELD: Arbitrator, New York City Municipal Court (Small Claims),
1955-61; staff director, New York Committee for Stevenson, Kefauver,
Wagner, 1956; trustee and member, executive committee, Boston Opera
Group, 1958-6o.

MEMBER OF: Harmonie Club, New York City; Harvard Club of New York;
National Lawyers Club, Washington, D.C.

DANIEL SCIARRA

 

HOME appress: 135 Old Army Rd., Scarsdale, N.Y.

orrice appress: Neurological Institute, 710 W, 168th St. New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Central High School, Paterson, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: AB., cum laude, 1940, M.D., 1943-

[ 1162 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MARRIED: Helen Pranskus, Nov. 28, 1946 (died July 28, 1958); Madeline
Klauser, Jan. 28, 1959. cHiLpreN: Michael, Aug. 3, 1946 (stepson); Dalen,
Oct. 10, 1947; Chetra, Dec. 19, 1948 (stepdaughter); Lorraine, May 15,
1950; J. Daniel, March 7, 1961.

occupaTIon: Physician — neurologist.

OFFICES HELD: Professor of clinical neurology, College of Physicians and
Surgeons, Columbia University; attending neurologist, Neurological Insti-
tute, Columbia-Presbyterian Medical Center.

MEMBER OF: American Neurological Association; American Academy of Neu-
rology; Association for Research in Nervous and Mental Disease.

PUBLICATIONS: Fifteen to twenty papers in neurology dealing with epilepsy,
brain tumors, multiple sclerosis, etc.; several sections on neurology in
several medical textbooks.

IN cataloguing the many lives of many men, one can hardly get to
know the many lives of one man. And of this multi-faceted one life,
what is worth recording?

First, perhaps, a note about the personal and emotional life that is
composed warp and woof of family and other close ones — with
the gains, the losses and the solaces! I see and rejoice in the number
of flourishing independent children. And above all here is the good
fortune of a lovely, loving and beloved wife.

Further, it may be worth recording the evolution of a medical
training. By great good fortune, I could not have been better ex-
posed and trained in medicine and in my chosen field of neurology.
Still further this background of training has led to a semi-permanent
or permanent opportunity to teach and practise neurology at one
of its highest “citadels.”

And still further, what? With the above revealed temperament
and training my professional life is experienced in the practice and
teaching of my specialty. I find myself charting this course in a
large, restless, and always changing medical center. There are ever
new, sometimes misleading, occasionally treacherous signposts of
modern medicine here — “Publish or Perish,” “Soft Government
Funds,” “Full Time Academic Medicine,” “Socialized Practice of
Medicine.” ‘These are the dilemmas of our medical times and these
are the present purposes of this one facet of this one life of Harvard
"40 — to steer a reasonably straight course amidst the medical fads
and fancies of the day; to practise and teach medicine as a combined
art and science, and to keep believing that “Of the most high cometh
Healing.”

[ 1163 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

FRANCIS WEBBER SCOFIELD

‘

2

3

:
x8
4
A
A
4
8
“4

 

E ADDRESS: 157 Old Farm Rd., Levittown, N.Y.

cE Appress: Grace National Bank of New York, 7 Hanover Sq., New York
15, N.Y.

RED at: Country Day School for Boys, Newton, Mass.

5 IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

1g: Jessie Marian Ashley, Feb. 17, 1945. caitpren: Frank Ashley, April
o, 1947; Rupert Wallace, July 25, 1949; Benjamin Webber, Oct. 18, r951;
Janiel Davisson, Nov. 21, 1955.

‘ATION: Assistant cashier, Grace National Bank of New York.

2s HELD: Republican Committeeman, Nassau Committeemen’s Council,
nce 1950; consistoryman, 1956, financial secretary, 1957, Levittown Com-
unity Church; president, The Grace Club, 1954.

ER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

"W years ago I was driving down the west coast of Puerto
late one Saturday night after finishing a job at the paper mill
ecibo about sundown. I was headed for La Parguera, hoping
t a boat out to see the phosphorescent bay, with a date to
some people early the next morning to go snorkeling for
g conch shells (and hopefully not for the big sharks) below
‘Tron.
as barreling along near Mayagiiez in a rented Falcon when the
suddenly disappeared and off we went into space. There
me construction going on and the contractor had removed
| yards of road, not bothering to mark it, probably on the
‘that the drivers were certain to find out sooner or later.
re was nothing to do but say “So long, Earth”; and during
ief period of weightlessness that followed, I wondered what
nily were doing in our small and overstuffed house on Long
It was probable that wife Jess would be covered with news-

[ 1164 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

papers asleep on the sofa, next to a table piled with half-finished
water colors, brushes, and paint, and the empty oatmeal bones that
seem to be so prized by art teachers at the local schools. Our four
boys would be engaged in stringing guitars, repairing lacrosse
sticks or bows and arrows, and reading Super Gorilla comics; and
Scotty, half English Setter, half Springer Spaniel, would be en-
gaged with new puppies and/or fleas.

By purest luck the car landed on all fours, suffering only from
caved-in springs. After the road began to come back into focus,
it occurred to me that perhaps the romance of the tropics was
not for someone of my particular stage of life and that it might be
better to stay with the Long Island Railroad, square wheels and all.

Except for the war years with the 12th Air Force in Italy, 1 have
been with W. R. Grace & Company since early 1941. Most of the
work has been in connection with various aspects of financing
shipping and trade with South America. It is an exceptionally in-
teresting line of business and a splendid crowd to work with. It
has been often bumpy but never dull. To be sure, the excitement
has sometimes been of the reverse sort, such as discovering a few
minutes before a meeting that your figures are off by about ten
million bucks; or that a warehouse boss is totally without a sense
of humor after telling him to jump in the East River during a
difference of opinion over the speed at which he was moving out
some tonnage. I spent a few years in the Latin American Paper
Division until it was sold to International Paper. I am presently
with Grace National Bank of New York, and our connection with
the Grace Organization will probably come to an end in 1965 if
our bank merges into Marine Midland according to plan.

I suppose it is quite typical of the way Ja pelota bounces that,
after spending most of my school days struggling with Latin and
French and German, the only foreign language I use every day on
the job is Spanish, with which my first contact was a few months
after graduation.

This is the last year our family is intact before Frank starts
college next fall. He was center on his high school football team
and, although we are always sorry not to sce the Crimson at Teast
once a year, we spent some interesting Saturday afternoons follow.
ing the fortunes of Division Avenue High, who won all their games
but one. Rupe is playing soccer and weekends the house is full of
their friends, most of whom seem to have limbs in casts.

As a Republican committeeman, I have covered a great deal of

[ 1165 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

pavement over the last years, but any thought of the 1964 campaign

causes a whistling noise to start up in my ears, At our Community

Church, I served for a time as consistoryman and as financial secre-

rary, until at one meeting someone remarked that he thought we

should try out a new plan and see if it ran up the flagpole, at which
oint I decided that was enough.

We have been in the habit of summering in Maine or at Mackinac
Island, Michigan, but this year Frank and Rupe got a ride down
from their camp counseloring jobs in Maine and did not want to
miss their fall practice, so I stayed home while Jess went to Mackinac
with Ben and Dan. Perhaps in an effort to regain my lost youth,
I ried a couple of things for the first time in twenty years: I went
out to Zahn’s Airport and took up a plane, and shot a round of
skeet. My youth was lost all right. It was spooky being 3000
feet over the bay with no chute; and at the range, after hitting the
first six birds, the barrel must have got bent, Then I tried surf-
boarding, which is becoming very popular here, but a large wave
took me and board to the bottom, scrubbed me in the sand, and
sent the board by my chin like a cannon shot. I read my first
couple of Ian Flemings, and found it a bit too much for old 007 to
be coming down the Alp on skis at midnight, especially after his
strenuous activity of the previous night.

We finally got to see “My Fair Lady” at the summer theater in
Westbury and, although my family thought it was marvelous, I
reflected how badly downhill Alan Lerner had gone since 1939
when he wrote the words and music for a slick tune called “From
Me To You.” Now all the poor fellow can write is lyrics.

From 1936 to 1940 the earliest I ever left was four minutes to
nine, the four minutes being the time it took a slow guy to run
from Holworthy or Dunster or Mount Auburn Street to some
place like Emerson. Since then, I have been surprised to discover
that a lot goes on and a great many people are about before four
minutes to nine; in fact, 1 frequently find myself heading for the
shop before the sun is up, in order to beat my affairs into shape
before the day starts and beats them out of shape again. Although

1 should never be out at such an hour save from dire economic
necessity, it is very reasurring to observe that this time of year,
late fall, Orion still stands directly overhead in the early morning

sky, in the same spot where I have observed it under a variety of
circumstances: from the deck of the Empress of Scotland on the
way to Casablanca; from a tent pitched under a big cork tree on

{ 1166 ]

__

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Corsica; and on the road from San Juan to Arecibo. It is reassuring
to consider that it will be there twenty-five years from now, and
I trust we shall all be around to observe it. The arrangement of
the stars, encircled by its five bright neighbors, is flawless, and
anyone can see that they could not have been placed that way by
accident.

+ ROBIN SCULLY

 

BORN: Dec. 27, 1919, New York, N.Y. parents: Edward Paul Scully, Grace
Gilleandean.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1940(39).

piep; Lost in action, Oct. 9, 1943, off Salerno, Italy.

ROBIN SCULLY spent two years at the Law School before enter-
ing the service in 1941 and served a year in Washington in the
Office of the Chief of Naval Operations. In July, 1942, he was
promoted to lieutenant (j.g.) and assigned to sea duty on the USS
Buck, a destroyer on convoy duty in the Atlantic. In 1943 he was
promoted to full lieutenant and made first lieutenant and damage
control officer of his ship. In addition to his duty in the Atlantic, he
participated in the Sicilian 1 invasion where the Buck conv oved barges,
patrolled beaches and, during one trip, sank an enemy ‘submarine.

The Buck was sunk off Salerno, Italy, on October 9, 1943. Scully was
reported missing and on October 10, 1944, was officially declared
dead. He was survived by his parents.

[ 1167 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JAMES OTIS SEAMANS

 

HOME ADDRESS: \fonument Street, Concord, Mass. 01742.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Co., Bedford, Mass. 01730.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREE: s.B, cum laude (U.S. Naval Academy),
1942.

MarRiED: Diana Fraser, Aug. 26, 1944. CHILDREN: Richard Fraser, Dec. 2, 1945;
Jane Tyler, April 23, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Francis Augustus Seamans, ’49.

OCCUPATION: Guided missiles,

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Junior Chamber of Commerce, 1948-51; director,

Winston-Salem Symphony, 1949-51; director, American Ordnance Asso-
ciation Yankee Post, 1963.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Electrical and Electronic Engineers; American Insti-
tute of Aeronautics and Astronautics; American Ordnance Association,
Navy League; Air Force Association; Massachusetts Audubon Society;
Audubon Society of New Hampshire, Northeastern Bird Banding Associa-
tion; Western Bird Banding Association; Canadian Audubon Society; Es-
sex County Ornithological Club; Nuttall Club, National Audubon Society;

Concord Country Club, American Ornithological Union, Cooper Orni-
thological Society,

THE next twenty-five years will bring the world and its inhabitants
even greater changes than the last. We, in this country, are fortu-
nate to be part of the growth and spread of our civilization to more
of this globe's peoples. We shall see man journey to the moon and
back and prepare for trips to other planets. More important to
our country than these great scientific feats is the education of the
teeming millions of India and China, the barbarian savages of Africa,
and the poverty-stricken in South America.
The last twenty-five years have taken me to these lands and
many others and given me the ambition to visit even more in the
future. I left Harvard at the end of Sophomore year for the U.S.

[ 1168 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Naval Academy where I completed the full four-year course on
a slightly compressed schedule. Commissioned an ensign in De-
cember, 1941, I was assigned to an old destroyer, USS Truxtun,
which was wrecked on the shores of Newfoundland, on my third
day aboard, during a blinding snowstorm. That was before the
days of radar on every ship and cost the lives of 102 of the 145
aboard.

My tours of duty on two other ships were fortunately less
harrowing. On the last, I was responsible for experimental develop-
ment work on radars, fire control systems, etc. This whetted my
appetite for research and development in the electronics ficld, one
which I have been in continuously since leaving the Navy in 1947.

My first civilian position took Diana, Dick and me to Winston-
Salem, North Carolina, where Western Electric had opened a
plant to build radars for the military. We plunged into civic affairs
in an effort to understand some of the problems of the South, but
jumped at the opportunity for a better position in our native
Massachusetts.

Dick came to Concord as a first-grader with a strong southern
accent in 1951, when I joined Raytheon at Bedford, Massachusetts.
At first, it was radar design work; in 1955 I asked for and was given
responsibilities in guided missiles, working up to become technical
director, then program manager of the Sparrow III Air-to-Air
Missile. I have been at Raytheon since 1951 except for a two-year
term in top management at Baird-Atomic, Inc., in orbiting satellite
programs. My present responsibilities at Raytheon center on de-
veloping new missile programs for the company.

Daughter Jane now livens our household. Dick is winding up his
sophomore year at Duke. Two years ago, we moved to a second
new house in Concord, this one overlooking the tiv er, where we
hope to remain for the next twenty-five years.

This country still needs to define its national purpose in more
detail if it is to carry out fully the responsibilities that have been
presented to it, Once the national purpose is defined and understood,
our resources can better be harnessed to cope with the problems of
water pollution, unemployment caused by automation and the
problems in far away places like South Victnam,

[ 1169 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ROBERT CHANNING SEAMANS, JR.

 

ME ADDRESS: 1503 Dumbarton Rock Ct, N.W., Washington, D.C.

"ICE ADDRESS: Associate Administrator, National Aeronautics & Space Ad-
ministration, 400 Maryland Ave., S.W., Washington, D.C.

PARED AT: Lenox School, Lenox, Mass.

.RS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREES: S.B., 1940(39); 8.M. (Mass. Inst. of Tech-
nology); 1942; sc.p. (ibid.), 1951; sc.D. Hon. (Rollins Coll.), 1962.

RRIED: Eugenia A. Merrill, June 13, 1942. CHILDREN: Katharine A., Aug. 11,
1943 (7. Louis Padulo, Jr., Jan. 27, 1963); Robert Channing, 3d, May 22,
1945; Joseph, March 19, 1948; May, Feb. 21, 1953; Daniel M., May 7, 1959.

NARD BROTHER: Peter Bosson Seamans, *46.

JpaTiON: Engineering and administration; associate administrator, National
Aeronautics & Space Administration.

CES HELD: Instructor, Department of Aeronautical Engineering, 1941-45,
staff engineer, Instrumentation Laboratory, 1941-45, assistant professor,
1945-49, project leader, Instrumentation Laboratory, 1945-50, associate

professor, 1949-55, chief engineer, Project Meteor, 1950-55, director,

Flight Control Laboratory, 1953-55, Massachusetts Inst. of Technology;

manager, Airborne Systems Laboratory and chief systems engineer, Air-

borne Systems Department, 1955-58, chief engineer, Missile Electronics &

Controls Division, 1958-60, Radio Corporation of America; associate ad-

ninistrator, National Aeronautics & Space Administration, since September

t, 1960; commodore, Manchester Yacht Club (Mass.), 1957-59; vestry-

man, Christ Church in Georgetown, Washington, D.C.; trustee, Lenox

School, Lenox, Mass., Wentworth Institute, Boston,

BER oF: American Academy of Arts and Sciences, Boston; American As-

ociation for the Advancement of Science; American Astronautical So-

iety; American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics, American Ord-
tance Association; Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers; Na-
ional Advisory Committee for Aeronautics (Advisory Committees);
scientific Advisory Board, Department of the Air Force, Harvard Clubs
of Boston and Washington, D.C.; M.LT. Faculty Club; Manchester Yacht
lub, Mass.; Essex County Club, Mass.; Chevy Chase Club and Federal
tity Club, Washington, D.C.

{ 1170 |

_]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PuBLications: Patent No. 2,868,481, title, “Autopilot,” co-inventors, H. P.
Whitaker, S. A. Wingate and F. P. Wilkins, Jan. 13, 1959; “The Pulse
Method for the Determination of Aircraft Dynamic Performance,” with
B. P. Blasingame and G. C. Clementson, Journal of the Acronautical
Sciences, January, 1950, “Recent Developments in Aircraft Control,” with
F, A. Barnes, T. B. Garber and V. W. Howard, Journal of the Acronat-
tical Sciences, 1955; “Automatic Control of Aircraft,” with J. Bicknell,
E. E. Larrabee and H. P. Whitaker, presented at Journées Internationales
de Sciences Aéronautiques, Mai, 1957, Paris.

WHEN Napoleon reviewed recommendations for promotion in his
Army, he always asked, “Is he lucky?” I doubt that I would have
been recommended for promotion in Napoleon’s army, but I do
recognize a strong element of chance in my life.

As an undergraduate I had concentrated in engineering sciences,
and following graduation my application for the Navy was turned
down for medical reasons. I considered medical school and took a
pre-med course in biology and finally entered the graduate school of
engineering at Harvard. Dick Lewis, also Class of r940, enrolled in
the same course, suggested that M.LT. might offer more opportunity
at the graduate level, and knowing little about the institution down
the river I agreed to accompany him on a visit to the AL.L.T. ad-
missions office. The dean, convinced that we both were interested
in transferring to M.LT., asked about our courses at Harvard and
indicated that we both might be accepted as sophomores with de-
ficiencies in physics. That evening I reviewed a complex application
form and M.LT. catalog and filled in the details, more with a sense of
curiosity than desire. Three days later I was taking acronautic. al
engineering at M.IL.T.,. while Dick Lewis decided to remain at
Harvard.

There are many facets to technical and scientific ficlds these davs,
and soon thereafter I had to choose between various areas within
aeronautics. With my Harvard background I found that twe or
three years would be required for a Master’s degree unless [ con-
centrated in instrumentation. Never having heard of this fichd, but
knowing the value of time, I elected instrumentation and found my-
self at the feet of Dr. C. S. Draper with whom I studicd and w orked
for fifteen years.

During my vacation the following summer, T was driving by
M.I.T. and dropped in to see Dr. Draper to inquire into possible thears
subjects. He asked me if I would like to earn money while working
on my thesis, This novel development led to my immediate em

[arzr]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

DOUGLAS HUBBARD SEARS

 

HOME aAppress: Barnes Hill Road, Concord, Mass.

OFFICE abpREss: Pepperell Manufacturing Co., 140 Federal St., Boston, Mass.
PrepareD aT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B,, C72 laude, 1940; M.B.Avy 1942.

marriep: Anne Thomas, May 1, 1943. CHILDREN: Douglas Warren, June 11,
1947; Deborah Anne, May 18, 1951; Pamela, March 8, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Herbert Bruce Maclntire Sears, 43; Donald Quentin Sears,

9

47. ;
occupation: Treasurer, Pepperell Manufacturing Company.
OFFICES HELD: Member, Tax Committee, American Textile Manufacturers In-

stitute, member, Accounting Council, Machinery and Allied Products
Institute; trustee, Sanford Dunson Foundation.

MEMBER OF: Financial Executives Institute; National Association of Account-
ants.

TO put twenty-five years into perspective in a few words 1S
difficult. The chronology, being factual, comes easily; analysis and
evaluation of the meanings and high points of this period is another
matter.

College was followed by business school, marriage and an initial
business apprenticeship in the early years of the war as controller
of a small manufacturing company in Waltham, Massachusetts.
Naval service in the Supply Corps interrupted this training but
two years in cost inspection work at Chrysler, Detroit, proved to be
useful experience.

For a dozen years thereafter, until 1958, we lived in Maine. There
our children were born and the first house we owned was built,
rebuilt and enlarged. The years in financial areas of Saco Lowell
Shops, which led to positions as controller and treasurer, were also
years of bringing up a young family. Gardening, landscaping a

{ 1174]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

barren house lot, birdwatching on a migratory flyway and coping
with the many demands of business and a growing family kept life
fully occupied for both of us.

Anne and I always tried, every year or two, to arrange a short
family vacation that would bring a complete change of scene and
give us all a week or two away from daily pressures. Luckily
almost from birth, the children have enjoyed flying. Our many
trips together to Florida, Bermuda, Caribbean Islands and Europe
(these, however, without the children) certainly have been high
points of these years, as we have explored new places and things
together.

We have also found that as with human life, corporate life can
be unpredictable. What in 1960 appeared to be a rather stable
business situation with a foremost U.S. textile machinery manu-
facturer changed almost overnight. A shift in corporate ownership
breaking off management continuity as I had known it for fifteen
years prompted me to leave the company and join Pepperell Manu-
facturing Company as treasurer and controller in 1961. Associauon
with this fine manufacturer of Lady Pepperell sheets and blankets
and textile products is a most happy one.

During the late ’50’s we moved to Concord, Massachusetts, de-
signed and built a house on a large lot bordering a typical New
England pond. Here again we have been able to observe nature
firsthand. As we became acquainted with the wild ducks and
Canada geese, they have responded. Nesting heavily in the area,
they bring their young and friends (80-120 a year) to our back
door to be fed. In this setting, Anne and I have actively pursued
nature, photography, flowers, birds and animals. Although both
strictly amateurs, we find a great deal of satisfaction in seeing a
Y.” bloom of a wildflower transformed into a 4’ X 35’ color en-
largement.

The children have grown fast. Doug, in his last vear at Middlesex,
aspires to enter the Class of ’69 at Harvard. Pamela, now nine, and
Debbie, thirteen, are in the fourth and eighth grades in Concord
schools. We seem now to be at the height of the children’s ac-
tivities: lessons in music, dancing, riding, skiing, swimming, ete,
leave hardly an unscheduled minute for either children or parents,
Looking back, these twenty-five years have been one of family and
personal development. We have conveyed some of our enthusiast
to our children and they, theirs to us. We have found new area
we would like to explore: nature at home and abroad; ways of Ife

[1175 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

in other countries; a desire to travel and learn; how to keep from
breaking a leg riding our son’s motorcycle. Our ever-pressing limita-
tion is time. Perhaps in the “next twenty-five” business and family
pressures may lessen and we may yet find time to do some of the
many things which today, because of lack of time, have to be post-
poned.

JAMES OSTLE SEARS, JR.

 

HOME Appress: 46 Livermore St., Portsmouth, N.H.

OFFICE aDpREss: Spherex, Inc., Folly Mill Lane, Seabrook, N.H.

PREPARED AT: Cambridge High and Latin School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1941. DEGREES: A.B., 1940(41); M.B.A., 1950.

Marrien: Anne Frisby, Sept. 16, 1950. CHILDREN: James Ostle, 3d, Feb. 15,
1954; David, April 9, 1957; Katherine, June 16, 1959; Amy, July 5, 1963.

occupation: Treasurer and sales manager, small manufacturing company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York.

AFTER graduation, five years in the Navy, a couple of years in
the production of ladies’ underwear, then the Business School.
Motorcycled over Europe between years at the Business School
and met my wife on the boat coming back. Travel is broadening.

Since 1950 have been in a very small manufacturing business. .
Not much money but many crises and lots of interest.

Although still a registered Democrat, find myself becoming more
conservative and more and more frequently voting for the Re-
publican candidate if he is at all progressive. Still do some skiing

and, with a new move to Portsmouth, New Hampshire, expect to
become active in sailing.

[1176 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT JAMES SEDER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 19 Irvington St., Waban, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Liner Insurance Agency, 6 St. James Ave., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Maynard High School, Maynard, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarRIED: Ruth Selviz, Aug. 24, 1940. CHILDREN: David Michael, May 30, 1942;
Diane Leslie, Dec. 31, 1946; James Benjamin, Sept. 8, 1950, Lauren Amy,
July 6, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: Simon Joseph Seder, ’36, LL.B., ’39.

OCCUPATION: Insurance broker.

OFFICES HELD: Past president, Temple Emanuel Couples Club, Parent-Teachers
Association, Temple Reyim, Newton; Past Master, Garden City Lodge of
Masons, Newton; Past Junior Grand Steward, Grand Lodge of Masons of
Massachusetts; currently, vice-president and director, Newton Masonic
Club, Inc.

MEMBER OF: Temple Reyim, and Garden City Lodge of Masons, Newton,
Back Bay Square & Compasses Club, Newton Masonic Club, Inc.; Massa-
chusetts Consistory; Shrine; Massachusetts Insurance Brokers Association.

THIS is probably the first time since 1940 that I have sat down
and attempted to write an organized theme or whatever it may
be called, about anything. I feel pretty much the same way that I
felt in 1936 when I wrote my first “English A” theme, after coming
out of a country high school.

Career-wise, I spent the first ten years after graduation in the
garment manufacturing business. This period was broken up by
an industrial accident that kept me out of the service and out of
business for a while. I have been an insurance broker since tg¢o,
and find it satisfying and productive.

My family consists of two boys and two girls. My elder bey,
David, is twenty-two years old and is now in the Navy, My elder
daughter is seventeen years old and has just entered the University

[1177 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

of Massachusetts. My younger son, Jimmy, is fourteen years old
and has just entered high school. My younger daughter, Lauri,
is six years old and has just entered grammar school.

Our social life has been built primarily around our children, our
Temple and the Masonic organization. We have devoted our leisure
time to these three things, and have found each rewarding.

Politically, we call ourselves independents, but I guess that we
follow a fairly liberal point of view. We would find it easy to
vote for a Kennedy or a Keating or a Javits. We would not find
it easy to vote for a Goldwater.

As for hobbies, what little time I do have I devote to golf. I
consider myself a “hacker,” but enjoy the companionship, exercise
and fresh air. So far, my life has been a pleasant one, mixed with
its full share of pleasure and pain. Harvard has always been a
pleasurable part of my life, and the pride associated with being a

part of Harvard has contributed greatly to my morale, as well as
that of my family.

PETER SEEGER

 

HOME appress: Dutchess Junction, Beacon, N.Y,
PREPARED AT: Avon Old Farms, Avon, Conn,
. YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938.

MaRRIED: Toshi-Aline Ohta, July 20, 1943. crilpReN: Peter, Jr., Sept., 1944

(died March, 1945); Daniel, Sept. 2, 1946; Mika, Aug. 1, 1948; Virginia,
Feb. 25, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: John J. Seeger, ’36.
occupation: Musician,
pusLications: How To Play The 5-String Banjo, 1948; American Favorite Bal-

lads, 1960, The Bells of Rhymney and other songs and stories, 1964; various
recordings.

[1178]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
FOR twenty-five years the Class Fund has flatterinuly considered
me a Harvard alumnus, although I left Cambridge before the end
of my second year, partly because of lack of money, lack of high
marks and mainly because I got too interested in extracurriculae
activities. I remember thinking when 1940 came along that 1
was glad I had spent the two years there, that I had Icarned certain
invaluable things, but also that I had learned in the two years that
I had been away certain things that Harvard wouldn't have been
able to teach. I am still pretty much of the same opinion, though
now if I had the chance or the time I would study languages
anthropology and geography at Harvard with an intensity I never

got around to when I was there.
Right now I can’t get over the feeling that twenty-five vears is

too damned short a time. I used to think that people who went to
the 25th reunions were really past the prime and on the long hill
downward. Somehow I don’t feel ready for that. Oh, life has been
far easier on me than any lazy person like myself has the right to
expect. After three and a half years in the Army I have been able
to make a living ever since at the kind of work I enjoy. And now,
in addition to wife and children and an unmortgaged home, | have
more financial security than I ever dreamed of.

But the big job still lies ahead, not just for me but for all of us.
Because, after all, what is the one thing we wish we could all
bequeath to our children? Peace. No more threat of annihilation
hanging over their heads. Twenty-seven years ago in the Harvard
Student Union we were arguing vehemently the pros and cons of
isolationism versus collective security. The arguments may be on
a higher level now. I guess we have all learned alot. Bue basica! ly
still the problem is the same. Can people who don't particularly
like each other’s looks, religion or style of dancing manage to live
peaceably on adjoining real estate?

Here’s to the next twenty-five years to work on it,

[1179 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

MARION BRUNER SEEVERS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 341 Pacheco St., San Francisco 16, Calif,

OFFicE appress: J. Barth & Co., 404 Montgomery St., San Francisco 4, Calif,

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, Des Moines, lowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.B.A. (Stanford Univ.), 1942.

MARRIED: Virginia Walker Scouten, Jan. 28, 1949. CHILDREN: William Walker,
Feb. 4, 1952; Faye Meredith, June 7, 1954.

occupation: Stockbroker, New York Stock Exchange member firm.

OFFICES HELD: Past officer, Harvard Club of San Francisco and Street Club of
San Francisco.

MEMBER OF: San Francisco Bond Club; Olympic Country Club; Harvard Club
of San Francisco.

TO attack the problem of this report chronologically, the first four
years after Stanford were spent in the Air Force, mainly as an
ex-fighter pilot. This circumstance was due to a miscalculation 1 im
flight resulting in a mid-air collision.

I reached China in March, 1945, as an intercept officer, just as
there was nothing left to intercept. This made for a dull but for-
tunately short tour of duty, and soon I was headed homeward
clutching in my hand my G.I. souvenir photograph of Chiang
Kai-shek and a little money I won playing poker.

The next three years were spent with an investment counsel firm,
but in 1949 I switched to the more stimulating brokerage segment
of the securities business. It was a happy decision and my charming
wife, whom I acquired the same year, says she knows no one who
enjoys his work more than I. Thus, if anyone should consider me
a square peg in a round hole, he may at least be assured that the
corners cause no discomfort.

Our two children keep us busy attending Scout meetings and
doing something like going back to school to learn “the new mathe-

[ 1180 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

matics” or chauffeuring them to one activity or another. When there
is time for it, we do our share of swimming, picnicking in the
Marin County hills, bicycling in Golden Gate Park, or taking
weekend trips to enjoy the magnificent scenery of Califormia.

Feeling that people with strong religious convictions tend to be
happier, better citizens than those without, my wife and I elected
to start our children higher on the ecclesiastical scale than we had
started and let them backslide on their own. Consequently, they
are budding Episcopalians. My son, Bill, is an acolyte (a word
I didn’t even know at his age).

After four years in Cambridge when the cult of “indifference”
was perhaps at its peak, it has been too easy to “let George do it,”
especially if he is a real beaver. I still let George do most of it,
but occasionally put a little effort into a project such as the
Program for Harvard College or the United Crusade.

I also put some effort into the never-ending struggle to reduce
my golf handicap and my one-a-month bridge game losses, with
little success on either score.

It is my belief that I am less intolerant of differing opinions than
I was twenty-five years ago, but this may be only a natural slowing

down of the bloodstream.

HAROLD LEONARD SELIGMAN

Ro a ae FRET AS CRP INE FEC a

‘

   

mn,

  

 

j
4
i
3
i

  

HOME ADDRESS: 55 Joseph Zvi St., Ramat Gan, Israel.
OFFICE AppREss: P,E.C. Israel Economic Corp, 6 Ahuzat Bair Se, Tel Aviv,

Israel.

PREPARED AT: Beverly High School, Beverly, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B, Cum laude, igo, AN (George
Washington Univ.), 1945; M.p.A. (Harvard Univ.), tyg4; mie. Gbedb?,

1952.
[ 1181 ]

LLL ALLL ELEC ACA NL Nae NS IIIa ata etcetan cami teiieatate atta

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940
marrieD: Amy Ruth Cline, March 4, 1951. critpren: Deborah, Nov. 10, 19533
Gerry, July 10, 1955; David, Aug. 19, 1958.

occupation: Vice-president in charge of Israel operations, investment company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of Israel, 1958; chairman, Tel Ganim
Synagogue Council, 1963.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Israel.

IT doesn’t seem like twenty-five years out of Harvard for the
simple reason that, in fact, it is only fifteen. After four years in
government in Washington, D.C.— War Department, Treasury,
Federal Reserve Board (during which time I studied evenings at

George Washington University toward the A.M. degree) —I was

fortunate in receiving a Littauer Fellowship at Harvard Graduate

School of Public Administration. Renewal of the Fellowship for
a second year allowed me to complete all requirements for the
Ph.D. in economics, except for the Doctoral dissertation, as well as
to drink in the heady Harvard air for two satisfying years, 1944-
46. This was followed by a two-year stint back in Washington with
an economic consultant firm and a two-year contract with U.S.
Military Government in Germany as head of the Research Section
of the Finance Division of the U.S British Bipartite Control
Office.

It suddenly dawned on me that four of the five years allowed
after orals to write the doctoral dissertation had vanished, and I
decided to return to Cambridge to finish by one of the methods of
success described by the late Professor Schumpeter, per anus, ie.,
sitting on it and working (there were other sub-divisions in Pro-
fessor Schumpeter’s definitions, best left unsaid). Before so doing,
however, I visited Israel at the end of 1949 and activated a latent
urge to participate personally in its exciting rebuilding.

The year of writing the doctoral thesis in the subterranean library
of Littauer — 1950— was not the most exciting of my years at
Harvard, since the chore of grinding out the great economic
Masterpiece precluded much participation in lectures, seminars,
and discussions. A bright note during this period was meeting Ruth
Cline (Radcliffe ’48 (sic!) and Management Training Program ’50),
whom I married in March, 1951. The dissertation and oral in defense
of were finished by June, and in August we were off for Israel with
two lovely months in Europe (tll the money ran out) enroute.

We cannot claim to have been pioneers on the land or a chalutz
from a kibbutz, but the first winter was pretty rough, living in an
apartment in a new housing development without electricity, with-

{ 1182 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

out hot water, without paved roads, and without a lot of other things
in that year of “tzena” (austerity), but with lots of rain and mud
(resulting in good crops the next summer), and on rare sunny
spring days lovely walks through the stony, trecless hills of Jerwulem
colored with all kinds of wild flowers. These first months were
spent in learning the language and sponging on more fortunate
neighbors for an occasional hot shower.

In the spring of 1952, we moved to Tel Aviv where I began
work as assistant to the president of Palestine Economic Corporation
(now called PEC Israel Economic Corporation), an American in-
vestment company founded in 1926 by Justice Louis D. Brandew
Felix Warburg, Judge Mack, Robert Szold, and others. [ have
remained with the company and am now vice-president in charge
of our Tel Aviv office. The corporation has assets of over §:1 mil-
lion, almost all in Israel, spread throughout all the branches of the
economy. This involves my sitting on the boards of directors of
some twenty companies, each with its own set of problems, plus
constant contact with government, which is a much more pervasive
element in the economy of Israel than in that of the United States
especially for a foreign company subject to complicated forciyn
exchange regulations. In addition, we play host to visiting company
directors and stockholders (who number some 12,000 in the United
States). My charges include a crude oil pipeline, insurance and
banking firms, companies producing chemicals and petro-chemicals,
plastics, shoe soles and heels, tires, paints, paper, citrus, air conddi-
tioners, as well as companies marketing oil products and automorve
parts. In a word, the work is most varied and, not least in its
satisfactions, provides the “big fish in a small pond” sensation. We
spent two years (1959-61) in New York where I worked in our
head office, and we were glad to return to the Isracl bechive.

We live in a quiet suburb of Ramat Gan, the “Garden Cry”
adjoining Tel Aviv. We have three children, Deborah (eleven),
Gerry (nine), and David (six). Debby is serious, conscientions
and a good student whose life ts filled with extracurricular acas tars
Gerry shows signs of quick aptitude but his main love is Spree
David seems to be a combination of his older brother and aatce
Despite a six-day work week (oh, you licky Ametean, we
manage a great deal of socializing, formal and informal, snopliany
concerts and occasional theatre (did any of you ever try Shake. peare
in Hebrew? ). I am also active in our local Synayoyue Coun

Life in Isracl is exciting, satisfying, and fun, with a seine of

[ 1183 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

personal participation in and identification with one of the fastest
developing economies in the world. Everythng new is “the first
time in 2000 years” — if not even longer. As an example, some
ten years ago we founded the Harvard Club of Israel and the
chronicles bear no mention of any predecessor organization.

THEODORE LORRAINE SENDAK

 

HOME appress: R.R. 4, Box 17, Crown Point, Ind.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 213 S. Court St., Crown Point, Ind.

PREPARED AT: Roosevelt High School, East Chicago, Ind.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; LL.B, (Valparaiso
Univ.), 1958.

MARRIED: Tennessee Elisabeth Read, Sept. 13, 1942. CHILDREN: Theodore Tipton,
US.M.A., 66, Dec. 7, 1943; Timothy Read, Feb. 15, 1948; Cynthia Louise,
Jan. 7, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Ronald Maurice Sendak, ’51, M.B.A. "53.

occupation: Attorney at law,

OFFICES HELD: Nominee for Congress, Republican Party, 1948; Republican
county chairman, since 1962; Republican Congressional District chairman,
since 1962; delegate to National Convention, 1964; president, Valparaiso
University Law School Alumni Association, 1963-64; president, Crown
Point-Lowell Bar Association, 1952-63 (vice-president, 1961-62, secretary-
treasurer, 1960-61); chairman, board of trustees, First Methodist Church,
1959-60; president, Methodist Men’s Club, 1953-54; chief of staff, 5073 U.S.
Army Reserve Logistics Command, since 1960.

MEMBER OF: American, Indiana State and Crown Point-Lowell Bar Associations;
Crown Point Rotary Club; Crown Point Chamber of Commerce; Indian-
apolis Press Club; The American Legion; Elks Club; Roosevelt Lodge No.
716, F. & A.M.; Scottish Rite, Indianapolis Valley; Orak Shrine of Ham-
mond, Reserve Officers Association; The Methodist Church,

PUBLICATIONS: Free-lance writing for various publications,

I'M as old-fashioned today as I have always been. I love my God,
[ 1184]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
my country, my wife and my family. And I really do enjoy working
at my job, participating in politics and keeping active in the Anny
reserve.
I enjoy life.

JOHN WEBBER SEVER

 

LAST KNOWN ADDRESS: 4t Fairfield St., Boston 16, Mass. (Lost.)

THOMAS FLETCHER SEYMOUR

   

HOME ApprEss: Baldwin Road, Woodbridge, Conn, of¢25.

OFFICE AppREss: 1115 Main St., Bridgeport, Conn. of6o4.

PREPARED AT: Winfield High School, Winficld, Kans.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREES: 8.8, honor (Northweween Case
1940; LL.B. (Harvard Univ.), 1943.

marriED: M. Jane Conley, Aug. 30, tgyo. Cuitomen: Thomas blen her, yf
March 3, ro42z3 Janct AL, Sept. 27, toga, James Ry Bebo ra. rags. foabeh by
Nov. 3, 1958.

[ 18s ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

occuPATION: Lawyer, single man office.

oFFices HELD: Chairman, Woodbridge Democratic Town Committee, 1958-63;
elder, First Presbyterian Church, New Haven; member of council, Uni-
versity Club, Bridgeport, Conn., 1960-64.

MEMBER OF: American, Connecticut, and Bridgeport Bar Associations, Wood-
bridge Club; University Club of Bridgeport.

UPON my graduation from Northwestern and marriage a few
months later, we set out for Cambridge and Harvard Law School
in what turned out to be a severance from Kansas and the adop-
tion of New England as our home. Being a “pre-Pearl Harbor
father” (having a child born less than nine months after December
7, 1941), I was Classified III-A and allowed to remain at law school.
I enlisted in the Army Air Corps in March, 1942, and soon received
orders assigning me to active duty to commence July, 1943. I was,
therefore, one of the twelve or thirteen original members of my
law school class who were graduated on schedule. After approxi-
mately three years of “All-American” (no foreign) service as,
successively, communications cadet, communication officer, legal
officer, and administrative officer, | commenced the practice of law
in New Haven in July, 1946. I went to Dallas, Texas, for one year
as assistant contracts administrator for Chance Vought Aircraft
and resigned to become a member of the firm of Brennan, Daly &
Seymour in Bridgeport. Just about one year ago J resigned to
practise on my own, specializing in probate, estate, and personal
tax law.

I became involved gradually in activities customary for lawyers,
such as politics, P.T.A., etc. I gradually concentrated on politics
and from 1958 to 1963 was Democratic Town Chairman. | ran
unsuccessfully for several local offices and successfully for one —
due to a requirement of minority representation, I was elected to
the Board of Selectmen of Woodbridge in 1961.

Right now I am engaged in the present political campaign and
feel that there is a chance this year for the largest Democratic vote
that has ever been recorded in Woodbridge, although it will still
not be a majority there. As this is being written, on the date of
receipt of Peter Pratt’s reminder card, I have just finished reading
the New York Times’ headlines which are concerned with Khrush-
chev’s ouster, the Jenkins matter, and more Bobby Baker. Even so,
the prospect of the White House being occupied by the present

leader of what the Republican Party has apparently become is
frightening.

[ 1186 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Aside from passive membership in a few organizations, I was
until this past summer chronically uninvolved in civil rights and
liberties. This changed when I spent two weeks in Mississippi with
the Lawyers’ Constitutional Defense Committee attempting to repre.
sent civil rights workers in the Mississippi courts. I know that the
contact with the Mississippi Summer Project workers and the Missis-
sippi Negroes and the contrasting contact with the guardians of
Mississippi’s closed society has wrought a permanent change in the
life of everyone associated with the Summer Project. I have
never before observed anything comparable to the courage and
dedication of both the northern volunteers and the native Negroes,
As an example: Claude Weaver, a junior at Harvard whom I met
at Batesville, Mississippi. He was a witness in a case I tried there,
Our children are scattered—one in Japan, one in Hlinots, one
in Pennsylvania, and one at home. I regret that of all the tuition
payments I am making, none are going to Harvard. However,
today I would not be admitted either. Contact with my children,
their friends, and the young people I met in Mississippi makes me
optimistic about the future. The thesis of “Little Boxes on the
Hillside” is wrong.
For an alumnus who attended Harvard College only one year,
the length of the foregoing is presumptuous, However, an account
such as this must be written once and mailed. If I revise and edit it,

I will probably end up with nothing.

“+ CHARLES SIDNEY SHAFRAN

 

BORN: July 24, 1918, Dorchester, Mass. Parents: Victor Shafran, Anns Khon
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE! A.B. 1940.

[ 1187 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

marriep: Betty Florence Yellin, March 25, 1945, Brookline, Mass, CHILDREN:

Lee S., September, 1947; Stephanie Beth, December, 1950.
piep: Aug. 11, 1961, Newton, Mass,

wow: Mrs. Charles S. Shafran, 267 Hartman Rd., Newton Center 59, Mass.

CHARLES SIDNEY SHAFRAN graduated with our Class, was a
member of the Classical Club and after college spent a few years as
a civilian construction worker at the Argentina, Newfoundland,
Naval Base. Returning to the United States in 1944, he worked for
an accounting firm while taking courses at Boston University and
passed the C.P.A. exam. For our Fifteenth Report, Shafran wrote
that he was in business for himself as a certified public accountant

in the Boston firm of Gladstone & Shafran. He was survived by his
wife and children.

CHARLES JOSEPH SHAGOURY

 

HOME ApprEss: 23 Stedman St., Chelmsford, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Lowell General Hospital, 295 Varnum Ave., Lowell, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1940; Mv. (Boston
Univ.), 1943.

Marriep: Helen Leary, May 28, 1942. cutLoren: David C., April 17, 1943; Paul,
Nov. 17, 1944; Judith, April 16, 1948; Ruth, June 28, 1950; Daniel, July 30,
1957.

OCCUPATION: Physician-radiologist, Lowell General Hospital.

MEMBER OF: Mensa; Chelmsford Players; New England Roentgen Ray Society;

Massachusetts Medical Society; Lowell Medical Club; Middlesex North
Medical Society.

THOSE of us who went to medical school after college in 1940
found ourselves in the Armed Services upon graduation, and upon
completing our internship, we were scattered to the far horizons.

[ 1188 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I spent two rather unexciting years, mostly in the South Pacihe,
and upon discharge took up general practice in Farmington, New
Hampshire, where my wife was living. Parenthetically, 1 went into
medicine as a result of vocational aptitude tests which I took as a
junior at Harvard, and would earnestly recommend them to the
undecided. After nearly five years of general practice, I grew
weary, and decided to specialize. I chose radiology, because it is
a wide specialty which cuts across all other fields of medicine, and
is more dependent on the intellect than some of the other specialtics.

After completing my radiology residency at the Boston City
Hospital in 1954, I came to Lowell as the radiologist at the Lowell
General Hospital, and have been here since. 1 am very happy in
my work, which is stimulating, interesting and growing. It is also
much less demanding than general practice.

I find that as I have grown older, I have become more intellectual.
I love to read more than ever, and have recently renewed my
acquaintance with French in order to read some of the French
classics in the original. I also have found myself increasingly fed
up with religion, and increasingly anti-clerical. Today, as through-
out history, traditional religion prevents us from dealing realistically
with our problems. This is true not alone of Christianity, which kept
men from seeing their small role in the universe, and prevented them
from coming to grips with such problems as population control,
as it has in the past fought against vaccination and anesthesia; it ts
true also of Hinduism with its sacred and inedible cows, \foham-
medanism with its fatalism and Buddhism with its nihilistic ap-
proach to life’s problems.

I am also increasingly disturbed at the malignant intluence of the
advertising fraternity. Since it has no ideals, and has as its only
goal financial success, its unchecked advance is dangerous. Natural
beauty is sacrificed to unsightly billboards, truth is sacrificed to
exaggerated claims, good taste is sacrificed to blatancy.

It is a genuine tragedy that the airways used for breadeasang
are dominated by advertisers who care neither for artistic produe-
tion nor for genuine entertainment, but only to sell their often
unworthy products. I could weep when I see the trashy serials on
television, to say nothing of the brazen and endless commerciuh
and think that this precious medium could bring to us in our homes
the great plays, the great operas, and the great works of art from
every corner of the world. We in the Boston area are fortunate to

[ 1189 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

have station WGBH as a tiny voice that is all but drowned out
by its raucous commercial rivals.

I take a greater interest in physical exercise than formerly. I
like to swim, bicycle and walk and have lately undertaken golf.
] take an active interest in politics, and was until recently registered
as a Republican, but when they nominated Goldwater as the Great
White Hope, they lost me. I am not enthusiastic about increasing
federal power and authority, but do not regard it as catastrophic.
I look in the future to greater scope for the U.N. and increasing
cooperation between the US. and U.S.S.R. I also believe the in-
creasing use of atomic energy and automatic machinery will re-
lease mankind from the Four Dreaded Horsemen. The proper use
of leisure time will then become one of the central problems of
mankind. Educational institutions, like Harvard, will find an in-

creasing role in adult education, the enrichment and training of
adult minds.

ARTHUR MITCHEL SHAIN

 

HOME AppRESS: 420 E. 72d St, New York 21, N.Y.

OFFICE appress: Liquid Concentrates Corp., 75 E. 55th St. New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: New Preparatory School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. Cum laude, 1940.

MarriED: Betty Jane Hess, Aug. 23, 1959. CHILDREN: Richard, March 18, 1948;
Christopher, Oct. 13, 1949 (both legally adopted).

occupation: Director of sales, Liquid Concentrates Corporation, manufacturers
of a stable coffee concentrate,

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Shain & Company, 1946-52; president, General
Fiberglass Corporation, 1952-61, Jiffy Products Corporation, 1956-63,

[ 1190 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Jiffy Sew Corporation, 1962-63, Jiffy Sew Division of Revlon, Inc. 1943-
64; trustee, Boston Evening Clinic, Temple Israel.
MEMBER OF: Pinebrook Country Club, Weston, Mass.

IN the twenty-five years since I have been out of Harvard, I have
become sophisticated enough to know that very few, if any, people
outside of my wife and children will ever read this account of my
life. I Suppose the ancient Chinese proverb, “Often broke but never
poor,” might sum up a good portion of my life since leaving the ivy-
covered halls of Harvard.

I joined the First Division as a second lieutenant immediately after
graduation and emerged a lieutenant colonel in the First Armored
Division five and a half years later. The German Army seemed
intent upon preventing me from making the Sixth Reunion but,
somehow, I was lucky enough to survive in good shape. Along the
way I managed to pick up a few medals, the net results of which, I
have since learned, are that should I ever get to Moscow, I can ride
free on their subways.

From 1946 to 1952, 1 worked at Shain & Company in Boston where
I learned that working for relatives should be avoided at all costs,
meaning I worked like a dog and netted very little cash. There-
upon I made a worse mistake, I started my own business with far too
little capital — meaning I again worked like a dog with very little
cash to show for it. Fortunately, I was able to merge with a firm
that was very well financed and for the next several. vears life was
much more lucrative so far as the cash was concerned. In fact,
things went so well that in 1956 I started the Jiffy Products Corpora-
tion so that again I was working like a dog, but, by now, the green
stuff was rolling in; not in a flood, but in a pretty good trickle.

In August, 1959, things even got better. I married Betty Jane Hess
who came complete with two wonderful young sons, a mink coat
and no outstanding debts. We bought a lovely house in Newton,
Massachusetts, and I settled down to being the complete suburbanite.
In 1961 Jiffy Products was doing very well, so I sold my interest in
General Fiberglass Corporation. I might point out that while I was
working like a dog, getting married and becoming somewhat alHuent,
I lowered my golf handicap from fifteen to five.

Apparently this relatively easy life was not for me, for early in
1961 some associates of Jack Paar, the entertainer, approached me re-
garding the possibility that Paar might work out a special promotion
for my Jiffy Sew. Without going into the gory detail, the “Jack
Paar Promotion” cost me approximately one million dollars. Fortu-

[trot ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

nately I didn’t go busted, but I moved to New York and kept the
business going as best I could, which really wasn’t so good. The
only thing I was sure of at that time was that things had to get bet-
ter, they just couldn’t get worse. Sure enough, in the spring of 1963,
I got a call from a vice-president of Revion and I sold Jiffy Sew to
one of the Revlon subsidiaries in August, 1963. I remained there for
one year and resigned as soon as possible thereafter.

I am now associated with Liquid Concentrates as director of sales.
This company has perfected a liquid coffee concentrate similar to
powdered instant coffee, but, we feel, much better. I seem to have a
compulsion to go into new ventures and pioneer new products,
Why this is so I do not know, but I do know that this has provided
a lot of Jaughs, a lot of tears and very few dull moments.

 

HOME Appress: Hartland Four Corners, Vt. 05049.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 14 Concord Ave., Cambridge, Mass. 02138.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1940.

marriepD: Mary Elizabeth Grover, April 30, 1949, CHILDREN: Samuel, June 28,
1950; Sayre, May 15, 1952; Elisabeth, Nov. 27, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Trustee,

OFFICES HELD: Member, Fairfield Representative Town Meeting, 1962-64, Fair-
field Republican Town Committee, 1962-64; trustee, Hurricane Island
Outward Bound School, Children’s Hospital, Boston.

MEMBER OF: Cruising Club of America, Amateur Ski Club of New York;

Harvard Club of New York.

LOOKING back, I find my life has been spent reading, sailing and
skiing. When I’ve had to, Pve worked: as stockbroker, account

executive, salesman and deck officer, and, lately, as landscape

[1192 ]

 

ENS ORO ARTE RE ED CO Ee A em ate te kk

_____

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

gardener for an over-eager wife and stableman for an over-active

horse. Of my working days, the less (said), the better. The high

spots were the six years I spent on Madison Avenue and the tive
ears I spent afloat.

Small things have led to larger ends. As a child, I learned to
row a boat, in college, I took Geography 31A. In the eyes of the
recruiting officer, these attributes were pearls without price. They
led to an early commission in the Coast Guard and duty with the
Amphibious Forces all over the Central and North Pacific, where
I was privileged to take part in most of the major landings.

Again, because I had spent two years at law school, I found my-
self the only person in the advertising agency — including the bors
— who knew a stock from a bond. Here, at a tender age, I was
given the account of one of the major New York banks. This
provided a gilt-edged introduction to the world of finance, where
I have spent my time ever since in admiration for the blessings
showered on those who bought common stocks early and stay ed
with them.

During this career, I married Mary Elizabeth Grover, of Prince-
ton, New Jersey, in 1949. It sometimes wonders me, but, so far,
she has put up with it. We have lived, seriatim, in Boston, Prince-
ton, and Fairfield, Connecticut. Last year we moved to Hartland
Four Corners, Vermont, zip code o5049, in case you're tempted
to write.

While we lived in “Fairfield, I dabbled in local polities: served
in the Representative Town Meeting and on the Republican Town
Committee. This gave me a taste for broader landscapes. Last veur
I worked in the Rockefeller campaign in New Hampshire, where
met more nice people and learned more from them than in any other
three months I can remember.

We have three nice children: a boy and two girls, Vhey all take
after their mother, which is as it should be. W atching them gre
— and watching the bills mount — has understandab ly le dome
to an interest in other children, and in the processes by which the
young are to winnow the wheat from the chatf. In this connes tien,
I have found volunteer work with the Outward Botutnd Movecmene
and the Children’s Hospital very rewarding.

At this point, I am reminded of that laconic Frglishman whose
only comment when he was shown the torrent of water rushiny
over Niagara Falls was, “What's to stop it?”

[ 1193 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JAMES SHAND, III

 

HOME ADDRESS: 222 Five Oaks St., San Antonio, Texas.

OFFICE AppRESS: Joske’s of Texas, Alamo Plaza, San Antonio, Texas.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940,

Markiep: Sally Jackson, Oct. 13, 1950, CHMLDREN: William, 2d, Sept. 29, 1951;
Diana Jackson, Jan. 1, 1953; Hope Jamieson, March 30, 1954.

occuPATION: Merchant; vice-president, Joske’s of Texas.

ALAN H. SHAPLEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 4170 Pinon Drive, Boulder, Colo.

OFFICE AppRESS: CRPL, National Bureau of Standards, Boulder, Colo.

PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

marriep: Kathryn Maloney, March 10, 1956, cHiLp: Carol, July 18, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Scientific research and administration.

OFFICES HELD: Activities under auspices of National Academy of Sciences in-
clude: USA National Committee for International Geophysical Year, vice-
chairman, 1953-64, Space Science Board, 1958-60, Committee on Polar

[ 1194 ]

nl

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Research, since 1959, USA National Committee for International Union
of Radio Science, since 1954. Activities related to International Council
of Scientific Unions include: Special Committee on International Geo-
physical Year, 1955-59, International Committee on Geophysics, ance
1959, Special Committee for International Years of the Quiet Sun, since
1962, International World Days Service (chairman, since 1962); Various
connections with Committee on Space Research, Scientific Committee on
Antarctic Research, International Union of Radio Science, International
Astronomical Union; member of numerous scientific advisory committecs
and minor offices in scientific societies, including chairman, Geophysical
Monograph Board, American Geophysical Union, since 1959, research
associate, Harvard College Observatory.

MEMBER OF: Washington Academy of Sciences, Sigma Xi, Research Socicty
of America; Federation of American Scientists; various polar and the
necessary scientific societies.

PUBLICATIONS: Various technical papers, editor of two volumes of Axnals of
the IGY; a number of semi-technical articles.

SINCE soon after the war I have been connected with a government
scientific laboratory, the Central Radio Propagation Laboratory, a
branch of the National Bureau of Standards. Actually, my main
interests have been the physics of the high atmosphere and the
effects of solar radiations thereon, but along the wav have had
contacts with most aspects of geophysics and space science. I was
heavily involved in the planning, execution, and the aftermaths of
the international cooperative undertaking known as the International
Geophysical Year, both the international and the US. aspects. The
more dramatic phases were, I suppose, the rebirth of interest and
activity in the Antarctic and the beginnings of the Space Age, burt
much was done in other fields. Not the least important feature of
the IGY was the development of a certain kind of very active
international cooperation in scientific activitics, and this has been
one of my major preoccupations. The mechanism brought to a very
high degree of perfection in the IGY involved individual scientists
and the science academies of the various countrics drawing up the
plans for observing programs, deciding the best locations for sta.
tions, what results to exchange, etc. Governments were not com:
mitted by these recommendations, but it has been very interesting
to see to what a great extent the realistic suggestions of these non-
governmental groups have, in fact, been carried out.

Sandwiched in between has been service on a larve Number of
planning and advisory committces for the National Acadenmn of
Sciences, various government agencies and other groups on partiens! i
aspects of geophysics or space science. Until about goo TP directed

[ 1195 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

1ST TETRA RR HRI:

the activities at the laboratory having to do with solar-terrestrial
relationships and their practical applications to forecasts of disturb- -
ances to long-distance radio communications, more recently I have

played more of an advisory role and concentrated on liaison with

other scientific groups.

All this has involved me in traveling to conferences and scientific
visits in almost all parts of the world; I won’t try to recollect it all.
One of the reasons for taking the family to Wales during 1962-63
was to give me a breather from so much hectic traveling; another
was to get reoriented back to doing some scientific research myself.
This was moderately successful, but there were enough carry-over
distractions that the completion of the Aberystwyth exercise is only
just now in sight, with a bit of transatlantic commuting in 1964 and
1965.

My home base was in Washington until 1954, with considerable
time also spent in Alaska beginning in 1950. While in Washington
I was considerably involved with the scientists’ public action or-
ganization, the Federation of American Scientists. In 1954 the labo-
ratory was moved to Boulder, next door to the University of
Colorado, but for many years I kept a second headquarters for IGY-
type work at the National Academy in Washington. The move to
a more nearly satisfactory human existence began in 1956, as the
personal data above show. An understanding and able wife covers
for me as regards civic responsibilities, while I try to order my
life to be more often home than away.

DAVID QUAIL SHARP

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 3340 Windcraft, Pontiac, Mich,

[ 1196 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

IRVING ALLAN SHAUFFER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Howe Rd., Newton Centre, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1722 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; M.p. (Tufts Coll.),
1943. *

MARRIED: Edith B. Chervin, June 8, 1947. CHILDREN: Carole Beth, Sept. 14, 1949:
Phyllis Clare, Oct. 29, 1951.

OCCUPATION: Physician — radiologist.

OFFICES HELD: Visiting physician, Dept. of Radiology, Boston City Hospiral,
since 1948; associate clinical professor of radiology, Boston University
Medical School, since 1964; clinical associate in radiology, Harvard Med-
ical School, 1955-60; instructor in radiology, Tufts Medical School, since
1961; secretary, medical staff, Jewish Memorial Hospital, since 1961, Long
Island Hospital, since 1959; president, P.T.A., Oak Hill School, Newton,
1961-62, P.T.A., Temple Mishkan Tefila, 1960-61; vice-president, Brother-
hood Temple Mishkan Tefila.

MEMBER oF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society,
American College of Radiology; American Board of Radiology; New
England Roentgen Ray Society; Radiological Society of North Amenca,
Greater Boston Medical Society, Brookline Medical Club, Phi Delta Fp-
silon Fraternity; Garden City Lodge, A.F. & A.M.; Tufts Alumni As
ciation.

PUBLICATIONS: Co-author, Gastrointestinal X-ray Diagnosis, scientific papers in
New England Journal of Medicine, American Journal of Roentgcnology
and Radium Therapy, American Journal of Roentgenology, Radian Ther:
apy and Nuclear Medicine, American Review of Tuberculosis and Pul-
monary Disease.

AFTER graduation in 1940 I attended Tufts College Medical
School beginning in September of that year. When World War H
broke out our curriculum was accelerated. As a result. we were
awarded our M.D. degrees in December of 1943. In June of ty4t.
the ASTP Program had its inception. In order to undergo induc-

[ 1197 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

RICHARD CHENEY SHELDON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 45 Park Rd., Maplewood, N_J.
OFFICE appress: Ford Foundation, 477 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Peddie School, Hightstown, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., Summa cum laude, 1940; A.M., 1948;
PHD., 19§2.

MARRIED: Suzanne Cunningham, April 15, 1944. CHILDREN: John Cunningham,
Nov. 30, 1945; Richard Cheney, Jr., Feb. 18, 1949, Frederick Halsey, Dec.
14, 1951.

HARVARD SON: John Cunningham Sheldon, 68.

secupaTion: Associate director, Office of Planning and Policy, Ford Founda-
tion.

IFFICES HELD: Vice-president, International Research Associates, 1950-54; exec-
utive associate, The Ford Foundation, 1954-57; associate research director,
McCann-Brickson, Inc., 1957-59; assistant general manager and director
of marketing, New York Herald Tribune, 1959-62, chairman, Public Rela-
tions, American Association for Public Opinion Research, 1963-64.

MEMBER OF: American Anthropological Association, Society for Applied
Anthropology; American Association for Public Opinion Research; La-
vallerre (N.J.) Yacht Club.

puBLICATIONS: Various scholarly publications.

HARVARD presented me with a traveling fellowship upon gradua-
tion, and after a year of this and a brief interim stint of working
for a bank, the U.S. Army presented me with a uniform. I wore
it for four years, during which the Army, among other things, put
me through an intensive course in the Finnish language. While I
spent the rest of my uniformed days building bridges in France,
the Finnish later came in handy, providing me with a Ph.D. thesis.

After the war, I wene back to Harvard, nourished by the GI
Bill. 1 began graduate work in social anthropology in the newly
established Department of Social Relations, and then added on the

[ 1200 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tasks of a research fellow in the even more newly establihed
Russian Research Center. One idea we had at the time was that
Finland, a former Russian province, might contain maternal on
Russia not available elsewhere outside the Iron Curtain, and t was
a natural candidate to go see. I went, and came back with a theus
At this point I seemed to be pretty firmly embedded in academia.
But I had never been sure that I wanted to be a professor, and events
have allowed me to combine work in the social sciences with things
outside the usual range of professorial duties. I have done pubhe
opinion and psychological research for a company that specialized
in such activities in foreign countries, I have worked on the problem
of how to increase the effectiveness of the product of an advertusing
agency, and I have had a hand in trying to design and scll a news-
paper that needed to broaden its public appeal. But most of the
time I have been with the Ford Foundation, first in its Behavioral
Sciences Program making grants in support of these field and
presently in its Office of Policy and Planning, which ts concerned
with Foundation activities in general.

I have often reflected upon how much Harvard has had to do
with this history, and not simply because a lot of ic is directly
related to specialized graduate studies. I doubt very much that 1
would have done graduate work if my four undergraduate Vicars
had not steered me into it, and much of this steering was done by
teachers who knew their students well and were interested i in them.
One hears much these days about how this kind of teacher is becom-
ing rarer and rarer, about how preoccupation with research and
the wide world of affairs has made universitics more and mere iin
personal. I now have a son at Harvard, and the impression T get is
that the undergraduates are more removed from their teachers than
we were. I hope this impression will turn out to be fleeuny. Hlar-
vard has grown bigger and busier than it was twenty-five veary age,
but if it grows too big and busy for the assiduous care and inteflce-
tual feeding of its undergraduates, it will have lost ity first and

perhaps finest attribute.

[ r2o01 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ROBERT HUGH SHEPARD

 

HOME ADDRESS: 922 N. Madison Ave., Mason City, Iowa.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 315 Brick & Tile Bldg., Mason City, lowa.

PREPARED AT: Mason City High School, Mason City, Iowa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREES: a.B. (State Univ. of Iowa), 1940; Jv.
(ibid.), 1942.

marriep: Kathleen Hennessy, July 13, 1944. cHipren: Charles A., May 13,
1996; David H., April 13, 1952.

occupaTIoN: Attorney.

OFFICES HELD: County attorney, 1952-53; School Board member, 1958-63; mem-
ber, Judicial Nominating Commission, 12th Judicial District, since 1962;

former president, local bar association and local Chapter, American Red
Cross,

A TWENTY-FIFTH Anniversary so soon? Impossible!

WINSTON ENOCH SHEPARD

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 20 Oak Lane, Moultrie, Ga.

[ 1202 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID PARKER SHEPPARD

   

HOME apprEss: 103 G St. S.W., Apt. B-218, Washington, D.C. 20024
orFick appress: National War College, Washington, D.C.
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: §.B., 1940. Nov. 8.
Marriep: Margaret Ann Porri, May 6, 1942. CHILDREN: Mary Jane,
1943; David Parker, Jr., April 23, 1947; William P., Aug. 3» 1959-
HARVARD BROTHER: Joseph Stanley Sheppard, Jr., °37, 4-M-, "39

occuPATION: Foreign service officer, U.S. Information Agency.

RETURNED to the States last summer after five years in South
Vietnam. Studying at the National War College this year. Main in-
terest: problems of underdeveloped nations.

My daughter worked in Africa last summer, and is completing her
senior year at the University of California at Berkeley. The elder
son is finishing his senior year at Governor Dummer. The younger is

still with us. All are encouragingly disrespectful. Also favored with
a pretty wife smart enough to help pay the bills.

[ 1203 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

SAMUEL ROGER SHEPPARD

 

AILING ADDRESS: C/o Mrs. Sam E. Sheppard, 183 Monteroy Rd., Rochester 18,
N.Y.

JOHN KIRK SHINN

Aegemenene nage rte eet TN ey MERE TAME

      

 

SAILING ADDRESS: C/o McGraw-Hill, 34 Dover St., London W.1, England.

REPARED AT: Ponce de Leon High School, Coral Gables, Fla.

‘EARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1940; A.M. (Columbia
Univ.).

7N MARRIED,

CCUPATION: Business reporter, McGraw-Hill, chief, London Bureau, McGraw-
Hill World News.

AFTER Harvard and a year or so knocking about at one thing and
another, I went off to the wars, where I saw some interesting sights
and heard a few, but not very many, shots fired in anger. After
doffing my uniform, I went to Columbia’s Graduate School of
Journalism, proceeded from that to the inevitable bricf stint in a

[ 1204 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

United Press bureau, a tussle with a novel in Mexico, asorted jobs
in public relations and industrial editing.

In 1951 I became a part-time correspondent for the McGraw-Hill
business magazines, and — rather to my surprise, having spent meng
of my time at Harvard in the Fogg Museum, concentrating in fine
arts — have been a business reporter for McGraw-Hill ever since.
For several years I’ve been chief of the London bureau of McGraw.
Hill World News.

Good luck with the Reunion. Unfortunately, PH be in London
when yowre whooping it up in Cambridge — Cambridge, Musa-
chusetts, that is.

GEORGE HOUGHTON SHORTLIDGE

 

HOME apprEss: 318 Maple Lane, Sewickley, Pa. 15143.

OFFICE apprEss: Aircraft Division, U.S. Steel Corp., Greater Pittsburgh Airport,
Pittsburgh, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Tome School, Port Deposit, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B. 1940.

Marriép: Shirley Smith, March 25, 1947. crip: Russell Hi, Aug. 8 1948.

HARVARD BROTHER: Raphael Johnson Shortlidge, Jr. ’s50, 14.8. "56.

OCCUPATION: Pilot.

ENTERED the U.S. Navy as a flight traince in October, tage
Commissioned an ensign in the Naval Reserve at Jacksonville, Blots,
in June, 1941. On active duty from then until November, tugs.
Saw World War II variously as an instructor (iygt- 44), South
Atlantic anti-submariner (1943-44) and Central Pacific patrol and
reconnaissance (1944-45). Ski bum from November, tyg¢. until
April, 1946. Co-pilot for American Overseas Airlines, Nvany Con.
stellations from New York to London from then until June, 124°

[ 1205 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

After marriage (to present wife) in March, 1947, went into the
sheep-raising business in Big Timber, Montana, in the summer of
1947. Because of lack of capital, this interlude came to an end in
the fall of 1950 when I returned to flying as the junior partner in a
fixed base operation there in Big Timber.

In the fall of 1951 it was obvious to me and my partner that
with two of us on the payroll, the company was overstaffed, and
my wife and I, our three-year-old son Rusty (born in August,
1948), a dog and a cat returned to the Fast to look for a more
lucrative position in the then infant business aviation field.

February, 1952— was hired as co-pilot on the first airplane
bought by U.S. Steel Corporation. Worked in this capacity out of
Westchester County Airport in White Plains, New York, until
August, 1953. At that time was promoted to captain and trans-
ferred to the Tennessee Coal & Iron Division of U.S. Steel, in
Birmingham, Alabama, to fly their first airplane and to manage their
new Aircraft Division. Wife, son and self (minus original dog and
cat) moved there then and lived there almost eleven years. On
July 1st of this year, 1964, many dogs and cats later, and with many
other U.S. Steel families from not only Birmingham, but Duluth,
San Francisco, Los Angeles, Cleveland, etc., etc., we find ourselves
residents of Pittsburgh, Pennsylvania, a domicile change generated
by the immense corporate reorganization in which U.S. Steel has
been, and is, engaged. We now live at 318 Maple Lane in Sewickley,
Pennsylvania, where our sixteen-year-old son, Rusty, occasionally
visits us from his studies at the DeVeaux School in Niagara Falls,
New York.

The consistent irregularity of my work schedule has never
permitted me to take part in civic work or local politics. Hobbies
are a mediocre golf and mediocre guitar technique.

Since this is the closest I will ever get to writing an autobiography,
I hesitate to say any more. Writing and talking about one’s self
is fun but listening is more fun, so I lay this down to read what
the others have to say.

{ 1206 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

BERNARD SHRIBER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 26 Leonard Rd., Sharon, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Mishara Construction Co., Inc., 169 Pine St., East Natick, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1938~1940. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Elaine Mishara, Sept. 16, 1951. CHILDREN: Janet Leslie, Aug. 22, 1952;
Ruth Miriam, April 24, 1954; Donald Edward, Nov. 14, 1955-

HARVARD BROTHER: Arnold Lawrence Shriber, 32.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president, general building construction company.

ALVIN WARREN SHUTZER

 

HOME ApprEss: 40 Atlantic Rd., Swampscott, Mass.

OFFICE AppREss: William Barry Co., 250 Canal Sr., Lawrence, Mass,
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., €té22 laude, 1940.

MarRIED: Phyllis Simons, June 16, 1946. CHILDREN: Kenneth Barry, March an
1950; Jeanne Ellen, June 16, 1954.
HARVARD BROTHER: Sydney Julian Shutzer, °3q.

[ 1207 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

occuratioN: Manufacturer of men’s and boys’ sportswear, president of com-
ny.

wien nex OF: Masonic organization.
FIRST, I must overcome my immediate reaction which is to leave
the autobiographical section a total blank, because upon forced re-
flection on the accomplishments of the past twenty-five years, |
find such a sharp dichotomy between what I have done and what
I had hoped to do.

By the time I had left the U.S. Navy after five years of service,
I had acquired twenty-eight mature years and a wife en route. |
then found it necessary to support both of us, and almost dia-
bolically became enmeshed in the chains of the business world.
There I still struggle — but not in abject bleakness. I do have home,
wife, and family who sustain me after long, hard days, and bring
me great joy. My fourteen-year-old son has just left for preparatory
school, but a ten-year-old daughter is still there with the pipe and
slippers — and | do find cultural participation with my wife as we
trade thoughts and hopes. (My wife is a perpetual course-taker
who helps to keep me from the pit of intellectual vacuum.)

During the past two decades, my two brothers and I have carved
a niche for ourselves in the field of sportswear manufacturing. We
call our company William Barry. (Stolen moments are spent on
the golf course.)

I am anticipating with great pleasure my Twenty-fifth Class Re-

union.

JEROME ERDREICH SIEGEL, JR.

 

HOME AbpREss: Houston Park, Selma, Ala,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 419 Broad St., Selma, Ala.

[ 1208 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Selma High School, Selma, Ala.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cu7m laude, 1940.

UNMARRIED.

OccUPATION: Finance, insurance, real estate; president, Commercial Sccucitres
Company, Inc., Peoples Security Finance Corporation, vice-preudent,
General Land & Development Corporation, .

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and director, United Community Services, chair-
man, United Jewish Appeal; member, board of trustees, Selma YMCA,
Carver YMCA, director, Rotary Club of Selma; director, Committce of
100 Plus of Selma and Dallas County; chairman, Industrial Committee of
the Committee of 100 Plus; member, board of trustces, Temple Mishkan
Israel, chairman, Special Gifts Committee, United Appeal of Sclma, prew-
dent, German Club; director, Downtown Benevolent Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Selma Country Club; Selma German Club; The Cotillion Club,
Alabama Historical Society; Air Force Reserve Association; Rotary Club,

THIS is my first attempt at memoirs, and as I begin to think back
through the events of the past twenty-five years I am surprised to
see how vivid are the memories of those years, especially the years
of the earlier periods. It is difficult to make the mind concede the
passage of so much time since our graduation day. And I find it
impossible to distinguish the space of the time lapses or the junta-
position of the many occurrences since then. All of which is no
doubt a subtle way to black out, or try to black out, the unpleasant
reality of the aging process.

Of course, to my classmates who pause to look at the photograph
accompanying these paragraphs, many changes are immediately
evident which suggest that the passage of this time has noe lett
me unscathed. Other physical changes will be apparent when we
are met in reunion. I am happy, however, to report that, though
I have had a serious loss of hair, I have not yet had the large yarn
of paunch so often accompanying that hair loss. And though my
stamina is not what it was once, I can still boast of reading the
telephone book without eyeglasses. In the realin of the psy che, {
no longer dream the dreams of coming great triumphs in busines,
politics, or society, but rather of days of peace and a modteur of
prosperity, along with the respect of my fellow townsmen,

When I left college I left not with a feeling of happiness to have
finished with the academic life, but rather with reluctance to he
departing from the Halls and Houses where the w ay had been
pleasant, stimulating, and uncomplicated (at least since ‘the ditficaul
ties of freshman year) for a boy from the far reaches of the Southern
Frontier. For many years as I moved around the Southern and
Eastern United States, memories of college days continued Ge peeura

[ 1209 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

STANLEY JORDAN SIGEL

 

OME ADDRESS: 6530 E, Halbert Rd., Bethesda, Md.

FFICE ADDRESS: Board of Governors, Federal Reserve System, Constitution
Avenue, Washington, D.C. -

REPARED AT: Portland High School, Portland, Maine.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., Hagna cum laude, 1940; A.M., 1947;
PHD., 1953.

rarRieD: Madeleine Bartfeld, March 9, 1947. CHiLpREN: Karen Patricia, April
30, 1950; Joan Barbara, May 35 1953.

SCUPATION: Economist; assistant to director, Division of Research and Sta-
tistics, Board of Governors, Federal Reserve System, since 1964.

FFICES HELD: Adjunct professor, American University, since 1964; director of
statistics and national accounts, Organization for Economic Cooperation
and Development, Paris, France, 1962, 1963; chief, Flow of Funds and
Savings Section, Division of Research and Statistics, Federal Reserve
Board, 1955-51; chairman, Legislative Committee, 1957-59, president, 1959-
60, Bannockburn P.T.A.

[EMBER OF: American Economic Association; Conference for Research in
Income and Wealth; International Association for Research in Income
and Wealth; Phi Beta Kappa; various P.T.A.’s,; Bannockburn Civic Asso-
ciation; Bannockburn Community Club; Bannockburn Swimming Club.

cBLIcATIONS: “A Comparison of Three Social Accounting Systems,” Input-
Output Analysis: An Appraisal, Vol. 18 of Studies in Income and Wealth
(NBER, Princeton, 1955); co-author, Flow of Funds in the United States,
1939-1953, Federal Reserve Board, Washington, D.C., 1955; co-author, “A
Quarterly Presentation of Flow of Funds, Saving, and Investment,” Fed-
eral Reserve Bulletin, August, 1959; “An Approach to the Integration of
Income and Product and Flow-of-Funds Accounting Systems,” in The
Flow of Funds Approach to Social Accounting, Vol. 26 of Studies in
Income and Wealth (NBER, Princeton, 1962); “The Burden of Consumer

Instalment Debt,” in Consumer Instalment Credit-Growth and Import,
Federal Reserve Board, Washington, D.C., 1957.

‘OR one who finds himself in a minor state of shock when faced

[ 1212 |

— |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

with such calendar-determined occasions for sclf-accounting as
monthly bank statements and New Year’s eves, I found the twenty-
five-year backward plunge requested for this volume to be surpris-
ingly painless. The twenty-five years have, in general, been pleasant
and interesting (usually both at the same time) and occasionally
exciting.

The first seven years after Harvard were taken up by four years
in the Navy (ETO, Amphibious Force, LSTs, North Africa, Sicily,
Salerno, Wales and the southern coast of England, Normandy, and
interminable cross-channel ferrying) sandwiched between slices of
graduate work (prewar at Berkeley; postwar at Harvard).

Since 1947, except for two years in Paris, my main professional
activities have been with the research division of the Federal Re-
serve Board in Washington. Subsidiary: activities include occasional
lecturing and teaching and occasional membership on U‘S. delega-
tions to international technical and political meetings.

We have found life in Washington to be very enjovable. Family
life has been conducted in extremely pleasant suburban surround-
ings, with more than ample opportunity for active community life
in P.T.A., civic associations and community clubs, school board
elections, amateur theatricals, and, for my wife (the Hatch Act
limits me), precinct and county Democratic party work. (How-
ever, experience with apartment life in the heart of Paris may have
dulled our suburban enthusiasms a little.) Most summers find us at
Cape Cod (Eastham) where struggling with the Nauset surf adds
its bit to the tennis, squash, folk-dancing and sporadic indulgence
in the Canadian Air Force exercises that keep me going and content
during the year.

Of the past twenty-five years, the most enjoyable, stimulating and
productive of new interests and viewpoints were, without question,
the two years (1962 and 1963) that we lived in Paris, where |

served on the international staff of the OFCD (Organization for
Economic Cooperation and Development). As if life in Paris inelf,
on the fringes of diplomatic and international activity, were not
enough, official trips and assiduous vacationing led to extensive
traveling in France, Austria, Italy, Switzerland, the Netherlands
Greece, Israel, Turkey and Japan and briefer trips to Denmark,
Norway, Germany, Belgium and Great Britain. (It was a busy time.)
We gloried 4 in the food, wine, restaurants and cabarets, country aide,
mountains, lakes, roads, resorts, cathedrals, chateaux, muscunts, feel-
ing of history, diversity of cultures and way of life, and an apartinent

[ 1213 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

with thirteen-foot-high ceilings and five marble fireplaces in the
heart of the city facing the Bois de Boulogne. We may never re-
cover from this. At least we hope not.

] have no words of wisdom to impart to my classmates, nor would
lexpect them to take any such contributions any more seriously than
I am likely to take their efforts along this line. I hope, however,
that we as a nation have the courage and imagination to mobilize
our enormous intellectual, moral and material resources in massive
assaults on the major social problems facing us, overcoming what-
ever complacencies and lack of empathy and narrow destructive
views of self-interest that may have kept us from purposeful ap-
proaches in the past. Further delay and hesitation can only betray
our own best traditions, dim the vision of the possibilities of a better
life for all that the American nation itself gave to the world, and
jeopardize our own hopes for posterity. In all the attempts to
reach viable solutions, | would also hope that we men of Harvard
will play a role befitting the inheritors and beneficiaries of the great
intellectual traditions that are ours.

WILLIAM CARLYLE SIGERSON

 

HOME ADDRESS: 52 Van Doren Ave., Chatham, N.J.

OFFICE apprEss: Carter Products, Inc., 2 Park Ave., New York 16, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Chelmsford High School, Chelmsford, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, cum laude, 1940; LL.B. (Yale Univ.),
1943

MaRRIED: Ruth Carolyn Webb, April 14, 1944. cHiLpREN: Marilyn Ruth, July
8, 1948; John William, Jan. 7, 1951.

HARVARD BROTHERS: David Kinley Sigerson, ’46; Charles Willard Sigerson, Bus.
Sch., 1939-40.

[ 1214]

—_ |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupaTion: Secretary and counsel (corporate secretarial and Icgal work),
Carter Products, Inc., pharmaceuticals, cosmetics, foods, electronics.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Inter-American Bar Association, Asso-
ciation of the Bar of the City of New York; Harvard Club of New Jersey.
Minisink Club, Chatham, N.Y.

AFTER graduation and law school I spent five years as a naval

intelligence officer (World War II and Korean War); a brief stint

at the Department of Justice; four years with a law firm, and the
last eleven years in the pharmaceutical industry.

I tend to enjoy the international side of the business most. Last
year I had a couple of nice jaunts to England. I am hoping that the
various corporations I have set up around the world will prosper
enough to support considerable additional foreign travel for me
over the next several years. In the meantime, so as not to neglect
seeing the United States, my wife and children (girl aged sixteen and
boy aged thirteen) set out last summer with our station wagon and
tent, and camped our way across the country to the Pacific and
back home to New Jersey, hitting all the national parks en route. It
was a great experience.

For relaxation lately | have taken up piano again, and have been
working through Bach — “Italian Concerto,” “Partitas,” “Two Piano
Concerto in D Minor,” etc. Perhaps after a couple of years of Bach
and Scarlatti, I'll be ready to tackle the organ, as I have long wanted
to do.

I suppose I have grown somewhat more conservative in politics
during the years since college. Things seemed so much simpler to
me then: giving the job to some government agency looked like such
a neat answer to the most complicated economic problems. At any

rate, I find the Johnson-Kennedy brand of democracy just about my
speed now. It is pleasant this year, for a change, not to find my self
almost the only Democrat in the New York business community.

[1215 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

NORMAN ALVIN SILBERSTEIN

 

NILING ADDRESS: 2838 Mayo St., Hollywood, Fla.

DAVID RUEL SIMBOLI

 

OME AbpRESS: 124 Halsey Ave, Midvale Manor, West Lawn, Pa.

Frice appress: Schuylkill Campus, Pennsylvania State University, Pottsville,
Pa,

‘REPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

"EARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., Cum laude, 1940.

sarniep: Violette Dracha, Feb. 21, 1948. CHILDREN: Joanne, Feb. 11, 1949;
John David, April 5, 1952.

mecuPATION: Assistant professor of English.

MEMBER OF: Signet Society; Pestalozzi Foundation; N.A.C.T.E.; Green Valley
Country Club.

THE often-phrased “dangerous forties” find me living a relatively
safe, routine existence as a college professor. Perhaps one repeated
risk does lie in waiting somewhere along our local Pottsville Pike
during the two hours required to and from work.

[ 1216 ]

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Mv wife — following previous experiences at Boston University,
Radcliffe and Olivet college libraries — took a position in 1962 as
the first elementary librarian in Berks County, Pennsylvania.

We both enjoy our work; but we take special pleasure in our two
children and in their progress through Wilson High School — not to
mention the progress also of our two dogs and three cats through the
pitfalls of suburban living. Our whole family seeks recreation in
outdoor sports such as tennis, swimming, golf, skiing, skating and
fishing; indoors, music of all types has proven a strong family i in-

terest over the years.
Like others in my field, I too am subject to occasional Walter

Mitty dreams of some day creating a worthwhile and lasting piece of
literature; but these attacks are of decreasing frequency and in-
tensity with the onset of age and an increasing college enrollment.
Before this year is out, I should learn whether my first extended
effort has met with a publisher’s frown or smile.

Occasionally I find myself weighing my four years at Harvard
College against well over 1oo subsequent semester hours of graduate
course work in the education field at three universities; and, with the
years, the former have assumed greater and greater weight and
value.

I can honestly report that an increasing twenty-five years have
not wiped out the forces for freedom — both of mind and of spirit
—first fully experienced during those first four years. Men like
Alfred Whitehead, Harlow Shapley, Kirsopp Lake, William Langer
and James Landis are with me as J write and help to push apart the

walls of suburbia.

[1217 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

WILLIAM EMMETT SIMMONS

 

HOME apprEss: Box 371, Stinson Beach, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Box 209, Mill Valley, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Polytechnic Institute High School, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936, 1937-1939. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

Marriep: Jean Roberts, March 11, 1944 (divorced 1949); Jane Coffer Lunde,
Dec. 26, 1957. CHILD: William Emmett, Jr. April 25, 1945.

HARVARD SON: William Emmett Simmons, Jr., ’67.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Bradford Simmons, 34; Edward Ball Simmons, 737; Julian
Simmons, "42.

OCCUPATION: Real estate broker.

AFTER five years in the service (OCS to captain, Engineers), |
went into private school teaching and coaching which I thought
worthwhile and much enjoyed; eventually could not afford to
continue.

Fell in love with California, particularly the Bay Area, and
switched to selling real estate. Have been fairly bored with it and
am now hoping to enter building construction, although I may
begin as a carpenter.

Very worried over the lack of veritas around and the future of
laissez faire for the individual in the USA. Such crazy acceptance of
federal controls and largesse is beyond belief. Am ardent Gold-
water fan for his honesty, independence and general good head.
My religion is admiration of the beauties around: countryside, man
and woman. Am delighted to be about and to have good health.
Have son at Harvard who is turning out A-1. Would have preferred
his taking a year out after secondary school.

Some of the Far West appears as a hodge-podge which indicates
its bursting at the seams and that it is full of blood that boils. Come
out — if you stay two years, you won't leave.

[1218 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

JOHN HOWLAND SIMONDS

 

HOME ADDRESS: 580 Pear] Hill Rd., Fitchburg, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Simonds Saw & Steel Co., 470 Main St., Fitchburg, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Patricia Tuttle Spencer, Jan. 6, 1950. CHILDREN: Patricia Turtle, Nov.
3, 1950; John Howland, Jr., Nov. 27, 1951; Spencer Woodward, Feb. 21,
1953; Elizabeth Carlisle, Dec. 14, 1956; Jane Todd, Feb. 28, 1958.

" HARVARD BROTHER: Gifford Kingsbury Simonds, Jr., ’36.

occuPATION: President, Simonds Abrasive Company, Philadelphia, Pa.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Simonds Saw & Steel Company, Safety Fund National
Bank, Union Associates, United Fund of Greater Fitchburg, Inc., trustee,
Worcester North Savings Institution, Applewild School.

MEMBER OF: Fay Club and Oak Hill Country Club, Fitchburg: Northeast

Harbor Fleet, Northeast Harbor, Maine; Northeast Harbor Pool and
Tennis Club.

DURING the war we all led a very ascetic life which continued
for me to the end of the 1940’s when I lived in Philadelphia as a
bachelor. The only important interruptions to this simple life were
a long-distance phone call to Sasabe, Arizona, and reading Macaulay's
Flistory of England while cruising one summer.

Then, great Scott!; in 1950 I married a most wonderful girl and
we returned to my home town of Fitchburg, Massachusctrs. Thss
started a decade spent in raising a large family and enjoying many
of the pleasures and some of the work of a prosperous soctety.
Our horizon was extended to include a summer cottave and sailing
on the coast of Maine, and a mighty fine horizon it was and is.

Now in the middle of the 1960's, I have a great family and an
interesting business occupation, We try to behave as reasonably
good citizens and undertake a modest amount of civic responubel-

[ 1219 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ties. Sailing and skiing keep us fairly fit and our enthusiasm for
tomorrow remains high.

MYRON SIMONS

Rikoht: Castaneda as ant

  

HOME appress: 315 W’. 86th St, New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 25 Broad St. New York 4, N.Y.

preparep at: Columbia Grammar School, New York, N.Y.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

Marariep: Divorced. cup: Joshua, 1958,

occupation: Partner, Hirsch & Company.

UPON discharge from the Army, I entered Wall Street. I am at
present a partner of Hirsch & Company.

JOHN HEFFRON SISSON

 

HOME apprEss: Trapelo Road, R.F.D. 1, Lincoln, Mass. 01773.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 203 Commonwealth Ave., Boston, Mass. 02116.
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

[ 1220 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.D. (Johns Hopkins Univ.),
1943.

MarrieD: Barbara Blagden, June 19, 1943. CHILpREN: John Heffron, Jr. May 14,
1946, Emilie Heffron, June 11, 1947, Margaret Wendell, June 15, 1951.

HARVARD SON: John Heffron Sisson, Jr., ’67. .

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Kingford Sisson, "46.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

MEMBER OF: Medical organizations.

PUBLICATIONS: Medical papers and professional journals.

AFTER I finished a delightful ten years at Johns Hopkins in Balti-
more, receiving a medical education, I thought I could go into the
private practice as an internist in Boston and not have to w orry
too much about finances. Naively I thought if 1 worked hard, the
bills would be no problem. I started practice with a group, thinking
that my life would be better organized and there would be more
security. After a few years this idea turned out to be fallacious
and I am now practising as an individual and really liking it more.
However, my security is entirely dependent on my health, and life
can be an ephemeral thing. I don’t wish to be in a high income
bracket, I just wish the cost of living were lower.

The rest of my family are enjoying interesting careers, technically
in the pursuit of knowledge, but actually in how to enjoy the
different phases of life. My wife majored in dramatic production at
college but several years (and three children) later she decided to
be an English teacher. This meant two years of hard work taking
most of the English courses at Wellesley. With that background —
the stage and school —she is a very effective teacher at a girls’
secondary school. One can imagine what effect this has had on
the rest of the family. I only wish I had learned to read and write
the way my children have. Needless to say, it has enriched our life,
at a certain price, to be sure.

My Harvard son is busy majoring in Latin American studies,
thanks to an interesting Spanish instructor and his own desires.
My daughter Emilie, one year his junior, is the more efficient
member of the family. She’s trying to decide what college she
prefers, at the same time hoping both she and that unknown insti-
tution will reciprocate. The youngest of the group, Wendy, has
the same problem as her older sister only at a different level. She's
one who never refuses another assignment, so this year she has no
time for riding which is her favorite sport. "

An important aspect of our life is the town in which we live. It
is an oasis surrounded by super-highways, has a population of about

[ 1221 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF I 940

4,000, is predominantly Republican although it can be flexible as
shown in the recent presidential election, still has a few farms, and
is very interested in the preservation of open spaces. All this helps
explain why I enjoy my life in a semi-rural town. There are good
friends, exercise every weekend in the form of tennis, gardening,
and the price is a forty-minute drive to Boston.

This leads to a comment about my occupation. I take over where
the pediatrician stops, so my patients range in age from ten to one
hundred, hence life is never dull. Although I prefer work in a
“teaching hospital,” my main job is to keep people well and out of
hospitals. This is the only way to beat the rising hospital costs.
Allergy is a special field of interest. It is still shrouded in mystery,
but it is amazing how much people can be helped. The practice of
medicine has changed a great deal since the end of World War I.
The “bigness” of it all is a major handicap and the doctor-patient
relationship is not always what it should be. Team medicine and
the age of specialization are partly responsible for this.

My only comment about Harvard is I wish I’d known the secret
of how to taste her wares twenty-five years ago.

ROBERT OWEN SKINNER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 22 Louise St., Canton, Mass.

OFFice ADpRrEss: Acton Laboratories, Inc. 533 Main St., Acton, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Rindge Technical High School, Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937, 1938-1941,

marrieD: Mary Francis Donovan, Oct. 18, 1952. CHILDREN: Janet Mary, Nov.

24, 1953; Susan Mary, June 28, 1955; Nancy Maura, March 4, 1957.
occupation: Accountant.

[ 1222 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

STANLEY EDWARD SLIVKIN

 

HOME aApprEss: 91 Oak Hill St., Newton Center 59, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: Boston Veterans Administration Hospital, Boston, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940, M.D. (Middlesex Medical
School), 1943.

MarRiED: Eleanor Cohen, Aug. 24, 1947. CHILDREN: Marjorie Harriet, July 15,
1948; Rachard Howard, June 3, 1950.

occuPATION: Career resident in psychiatry, Boston Veterans Administration
Hospital.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, Dorchester Medical Society, 1958-64.
MEMBER oF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
American Academy of General Practice; American Geriatrics Society.

IT is with mixed emotions that I realize the 25th Reunion is now
upon us. The armor may be tarnished, but the head remains erect
—if bald. In twenty-five years I have accumulated a devoted wife
and children plus a fair share of peace and contentment.

Following our Harvard graduation I attended medical school
under an accelerated wartime program. Upon completion of my
internship at the Mercer Hospital, Trenton, New Jersey, | entered
the general practice of medicine in January, 1945.

On July 1, 1964, I began a career residency in psychiatry at the
Boston Veterans Administration Hospital, Jamaica Plain, Massa-
chusetts. This new field of endeavor represents a bright new
challenge and it has stimulated me to search for greater personal
understanding of human behavior. Following completion of my
training I expect to remain as a career psychiatrist with the Veterans
Administration.

My daughter Marjorie is a junior at the Newton South High
School. She has her eye on Radcliffe —a long familiar Harvard

[ 1223 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

annex, My son Richard is in the ninth grade at the Meadowbrook
Junior High School. I hope he will be Harvard ’72. My wife Eleanor
is that paragon of virtue —a loving housewife.

All in all, as I read these few lines that I have written, I have much

for which to thank God. I am humble in the face of His great
goodness.

ARTHUR EVERETT SMALL, JR.

 

MAILING ADprEss: 1961 Glen Dale Drive, Lakewood, Colo.

ALBERT OLIVER SMITH

Oe

,
i
3
|

 

HOME ADDRESS: 324 Canton on Ave Milton 87, Mass.

OFFICE ADpREss: Milton Academy, 170 Centre St., Milton 86, Mass.
PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940(41); A.M., 1950.

mararieD: Mary Aubrey Keating, Jan. 19, 1952. CHILDREN; Katherine AUD remy,
May 20, 1958; Peter Johnstone, April 24, 1959.

occupation: Teacher at Milton Academy.

[ 1224]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SINCE graduation, I attended Harvard Law School for a short
period of time before enlisting as a flying cadet in what was in 1941
the Army Air Corps. After short tours of duty at Langley and Weset-
over Fields, I was sent to the Caribbean to enjoy about three months
at Vernon Field in Jamaica. Then my squadron had duty in New-
foundland, before being attached to an RAF Coastal Command unit.
When the U.S. Navy became ready to assume anti-submarine
duties, [ became a member of the g2d Bombardment Group (B-17’s)
in Poddington in England, as a member of the Eighth Air Force.
Returned to the United States in early 1945 to retrain in B-2g's, but
before we could complete our training, the war was over.

In visiting another classmate, John Huntington, in 1946, while he
was teaching at Milton Academy, | was offered a job teaching
English there, which job I still hold at this present writing.

My teaching career has been thrice interrupted, and always to the
benefit of myself and my professional activity. In 1958 I returned
to Harvard to take courses in English and education, as well as a
degree (A.M., 1950). Then in 1951, I was recalled at the time of the
Korean thing. This recall got me as far as Texas with the Air Force
Security Service. A rumor that spread around about me that I was
an English professor from Harvard, instead of the truth of the
matter, put me in the position of writing many letters and training
manuals, as well as being put in charge of three training films. The
best event of my Texas sojourn was convincing a young lady by the
name of Aubrey Keating that it would be to our mutual benctit te
start housekeeping together — and this we have been doing since
1952. The third interruption to my teaching came when [ was
given a sabbatical, again at Harvard, and again at the School of
Education, where this writing finds me in pursuit of a Certificate of
Advanced Standing, a graduate degree that gives me the opportunity
to enjoy some intellectual ventilation, and to match my wits with
others in my profession. The only thing that seems to have changed
since we were at college is the fact that hair seems to be worn longer
and more sloppily. I have made a point of inquiring just what the
significance of this and the reappearance of the beard and mustache
may be; so far, I have not been enlightened.

Like many of you who read this, I find myself a Scranton Re-
publican who voted Democratic for the first time in the lise election.
In addition, since college days, I find myself distrusting insritutions
more and more, and trusting people of good will; otherwi Ise, CLEepe

[ 1225]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

(hopefully) for an increase in depth and enthusiasm, I am much the
same somewhat naive creature that you may remember in 1940.

ERNEST GRIGGS SMITH, JR.

 

HOME Appress: 631 Fairfield Rd., N.W., Atlanta, Ga. 30327.

orFice appress: Dept, of Radiology, Piedmont Hospital, Inc., 1968 Peachtree
Rd., N.W,, Atlanta, Ga.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.D. (Johns Hopkins Univ.),
1943-

mareiep: Helen C. Crowe, Nov. 5, 1952. CHILDREN: Helen Susan, Feb. 9, 1955;
Ernest Griggs, 3d, Oct. 15, 1956; Cynthia Ann, Oct. 14, 1957.

occupation: Physician; radiologist in chief, Piedmont Hospital.

OFFices HELD: Vice-president, Atlanta Radiological Society, 1955, vice-presi-
dent, 1962, secretary, 1964, Piedmont Hospital Staff, member, board of
trustees, Eastern Radiological Society, 1964-66; assistant professor of radi-
ology, Emory University.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Fulton County Medical Society;
Atlanta Radiological Society; Georgia Radiological Society; Radiological
Society of North America; American Roentgenological Society; Eastern
Radiological Society; American College of Radiologists; Medical Alumni
Associations of the University of Virginia and Johns Hopkins University;
Atlanta Athletic Club, East Lake Country Club; Cherokee Town & Coun-
try Club.

pusLicaTions: “Alkaptonuria with Ochronotic Arthritis,” Medical Radiography
@ Photography, vol. 32, No. 1, 1956.

FOLLOWING graduation from Harvard I entered the Johns Hop-
kins Medical School in Baltimore, Maryland, in the fall of 1940.
There I enjoyed four academically stimulating and socially pleasant
years, I lived all four years in the fraternity house of the Phi Beta

{ 1226 |

YR AIRF OLE 9S: Mln i ERM eA Mt

7 meer pre

ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Pi medical fraternity which is located in a typical Baltimore row
house with white marble steps.

In the summer of 1941 I was almost killed in an automobile acci-
dent in suburban Boston, losing my right eye and suffering skull and
jaw fractures plus multiple lacerations and severe brain concussion.
I was, however, able to return to medical school in the fall, noe
losing any time. Letters from Reaumur Donnally, Johns Hopkins
M.D., ’43, and also Harvard ’4o, as well as communications from
others were extremely helpful to me during my period of recovery.

Following graduation from medical school in 1943, internship and
radiology residency were taken at the Johns Hopkins Hospital. |
received a deferment from the Army to continue my radiology
residency, but since my brother and all my friends were in service
I felt it my duty to help win the war also. Consequently, I entered
the service in 1945, spending six weeks at Fitzsimons Gencral
Hospital, Denver, Colorado, then about a year at Fort Benning,
Georgia. I was then transferred to Camp Rucker, Alabama. One
Sunday afternoon while at Camp Rucker, I was again severely in-
jured in an automobile accident. I was apparently thrown clear of
the car and the driver was killed. Because of the inability to locate
a Protestant chaplain, I was administered the last rites by a Catholic
priest and a Jewish rabbi. This time I received a fractured skull,
fracture dislocation of the neck, fractured jaw, and lost several
teeth. However, I was out of the hospital in about six weeks and
gradually returned to normal.

After leaving the Army I spent six months as a fellow in pathology
at the Strong Memorial Hospital of the University of Rochester
Medical School in Rochester, New York. I then completed my
radiology residency at the University of Virginia Hospital in
Charlottesville, Virginia. The following year was spent practising
radiology in suburban Boston as an associate of Drs. L. A. Vance and
R. A. Dillon, with an office in Lynn, Massachusetts, and giving
radiological service to ten small suburban hospitals on the North
Shore. This involved driving sometimes over a hundred miles a dav

and, even though I enjoyed the associationship with the other
radiologists, I felt the call of the glamour of California and spent the
year of 1951 principally in the Los Angeles-Wilshire Boulevard area
as an associate of Dr. Wilbur Bailey. I had in mind opening my own
office for the private practice of radiology bue found that in southern
California there were probably more radiologists than parents. Se
in late 1951, I came to Atlanta, Georgia, w here E had relatives anJ

[1227]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JAMES MARSDEN SMITH |

 

IAILING ADDRESS: 7 Lobak Rd., Seremban, Malaya.

JOHN BUTLER SMITH

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 3 Ross Rd., Belmont, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: AB. cum laude, 1940; M.B.Ay 1942.
MARRIED: Gladys Leavens, Dec. 31, 1953.

occupation: President, Hotel Endicott, Inc., Hotel Endicott and Brick Tower
Motel, Concord, N.H.
OFFICES HELD: Assistant treasurer, Metal Fabricators, Inc., 1942-44; treasurer,

Commercial Filters Corporation, 1947-60, corporation member, Belmont
Hill School, since 1954; treasurer, Yankee Lanes, since 1961.

FOLLOWING graduation, I entered Harvard Business School in

the fall of 1940, Continued pressure was applied throughout the
two years of intensive study in the problems, and their solution,

[ 1230 ]

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the business world. The transition from college to graduate
school was a staggering but rewarding challenge.

With an M.B.A. in hand I went forth in the spring of 1942 to
become associated with Metal Fabricators, Inc., of Cambridve,
Massachusetts. This company, just getting started, had many prob-
lems to cope with, complicated by all the emergency regulations
which then existed. For a neophyte this was an excellent opper-
tunity, and has proven of great value ever since.

In 1944 came a tour of duty with the U.S. Navy as an apprentice
seaman (there being a number of vacancies for such position at the
time), and in due course a promotion to seaman first class. The
Navy provided a variety of activities — from an assignment in the
provost marshal department in connection with preserving law
and order, chiefly among those who suffered from recreation fatigue,
to the cost inspection service, auditing cost-plus contracts, and
contract termination claims. After discharge in the summer of
1946, I was persuaded to remain in a civilian capacity for almost a
year.

An opportunity to return to Boston came along in 1947 and I
joined Commercial] Filters Corporation, then located in South Boston
and later moved to Melrose, Massachusetts, as comptroller, I re-
mained with this concern until 1960, and at the time of my resigna-
tion in the spring of that year was treasurer. The dev clopment of
a comprehensive employee benefit program brought me in close
contact with its personnel department. The president of the com-
pany, who took a great interest in his employee relations, felt
strongly that the very best work could be done after 5:00 p.m. Con-
sequently I had occasion to spend many evenings working w ith
the personnel manager, and finally married her. Now G ladys and
I live very happily in Belmont, Massachusetts, and have one poodle
who has more problems than most children. We enjoy golf and
bridge, and especially our summers at New Castle, on the New
Hampshire seacoast.

I have maintained an interest in the hotel business for a number
of years in Concord, New Hampshire, and more recently in the

Brick Tower Motel also in Concord. We are in the process of an
expansion program, and consequently I have had to devote an
increasing amount of time and effort to this — joined by my wile,
with an excellent opportunity to express herself as an interior
decorator, and very capably, too. From time to time she alwe has
to run an experimental kitchen at home.

[1231 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

The termination of my long association at Commercial Filters
Corporation was rather abrupt, but timely, coming as it did just
when the affairs of the motel business required much more attention.

More recently, in association with others, I have taken a specula-
tive plunge in the operation of several tenpin bowling centers at
Bedford, Massachusetts, Brunswick, Maine; and Keene, New Hamp-
shire. All this has required a lot of time and attention, but the re-
wards therefrom still appear, if at all, only in the dim, distant future.

This brings my story up to date. The years just past have been
especially generous to me. I am always concerned that I have not
responded by giving more of myself to the needs of others.

ROSSER JEFFERSON SMITH, JR.

 

MAILING appress: 506 W. Hildebrand Ave,, San Antonio, Texas 78212.

[ 1232 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

TEMPLETON SMITH

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 776 Valleyview Rd., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15216.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Koppers Co., Inc., 1550 Koppers Bldg., Pittsburgh, Pa. 15219.

PREPARED AT: Arnold School, Pittsburgh, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940; 1A. cum
laude, 19433; LL.B. 1943 (47).

MARRIED: Nellie Margaret Fergus, June 3, 1948. CHILDREN: Templeton, Jr,
May 20, 1952; Eliza Fergus, May 1, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Kennedy Smith, ’43, LL.B, 48.

occupation: House counsel and assistant secretary, Koppers Company, Inc.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Mt. Lebanon Parking Authority, 1953-61; chairman,
Met. Lebanon Board of Adjustment, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: Duquesne Club; Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club of Pittsburgh; Se.
Clair Country Club.

AFTER completing my naval service I returned to Harvard Law
School, only to find that most of the lower half of the class had not
returned and that the competition was rougher than ever. Despite
a tempting offer to remain in Boston, I returned to Pittsburgh where
I practised law with a private firm for about a year prior to joining
Koppers Company, Inc., in 1949 as house counsel. I have been there
ever since and am now assistant secretary of the company and third
man in a seven-man law department. The activities of the company
are very diverse, both geographically and functionally, and I have
become conversant with many areas of law and expert in none.

My Harvard education (which included nearly five years of
graduate study) has been of little financial value to me and may even
have been a financial detriment. However, all things considered, no
one really has a right to resent this sort of thing because Elarvard —
(like Christianity) never promised wealth or comfort. What it
does promise, I think, and what it gave me, is a lifetime “reading

[ 1233 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

list” of or an index to those fields of knowledge that interest me most
— history, literature, nature and music. I consider it, therefore, a
tribute to Harvard, rather than an insult, to say that I feel that I
have learned at least as much each year since I left Harvard as I did
during each year that I was there.

My wife is a lawyer who has engaged in active practice for a good
percentage of our married life. So broad, however, has the field of
law become that we find ourselves engaged in widely different areas
with little more in common professionally than if one of us were
an accountant or an engineer. At forty-four she is consistently taken
for thirty-five, and people wonder how I did it. We have a boy
twelve and a girl eight, who show promise of outstripping their
mother and dad in all respects. ‘This, after all, is what every parent
hopes for.

By very careful spending we have managed to acquire a gorgeous
Tudor Gothic-style house, full of most of the appliances known to
man. We find we can drive Cadillacs for no greater cost than
Chevvies, if we are content to turn them in every ten years instead of
every two. It is an increasingly difficult problem to live on a cash
basis in a credit economy.

Probably my most significant accomplishment (in a life that to
date includes very few) is the teaching of a sizeable adult Sunday
School class in the United Presbyterian Church. Perhaps, had I
realized earlier Jesus Christ’s opinion about lawyers generally, it
might have had a real influence on my life. Even the belated realiza-
tion may have had some effect on my practice.

When I have time I row a single scull on the Allegheny River, and
by so doing, have managed to keep my waistline within an inch of
what it was in 1940. Other hobbies include amateur cabinet making
and photography.

Because I believe our civilization is on one of Toynbee’s down
cycles, I like to see as little “progress” downward as possible. For
this reason 1 am and always have been basically conservative, and
have enjoyed seeing many of my classmates and other contempo-
raries become gradually more conservative as they grow more ex-
perienced with life. However, our colleges and universities, pre-
occupied as many of them are with science and pseudo sciences
such as sociology, are not turning out enough sound thinkers to

reverse the downward trend.

I believe, and always have, that government activities should be
carried on at the local level where the people can see what is going

[ 1234]

CONE rite,

nee een an!

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

on and where the influence of individuals or small groups of in-

dividuals can be most effectively exercised. Consequently [have

busied myself with politics in Mt. Lebanon Township, the suburban

community where I live (adjacent to Pittsburgh), and have, during

most of my residence there, served as a minor appointed official, tirse

on the Parking Authority and then on the Board of Adjustment. 1
believe that good government will be best furthered if citizens be-
come well acquainted with local officials and meet with them in-
dividually and in groups as frequently as possible. Centralization of
government in state capitals and in Washington eliminates this op-
portunity and makes possible the creation of “images” which may
bear little resemblance to the true character of the persons involved.
Some things must be done on the national level. Many things, hke
education and police protection, need not be.

While I am convinced that there is some good in most men and a
lot of good in some, I have reached the conclusion at this stage of
life that the majority of men think they are better than they really
are. It is precisely here that a Harvard education, merely because of
its excellence, can be a positive detriment if we are not careful.

+ ALLEN LANE SNYDER, JR.

 

BoRN: Oct. 5, 1917, Cambridge, Mass, parents: Allen Lane Snyder, ‘or, Ruth
Baldwin.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country pay School, St. Louis, Mao.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., magna cum lande, ty4n.

marriED: Hope Barnefield, June 13, 1942, Paweucker, Ril ciate Vio
Lane, 3d, Feb. 13, 1947; Gordon B,, July 10, 1y43y; David B. Dee. 4. nyc

DIED: Jan. 4, 1961, New Haven, Conn.

wwow: Mrs. Allen L, Snyder, Jr., 33 Woodhead Drive, Milford, Cons.

[ 1235 ]

— | ? | _

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

WHILE an undergraduate Snyder was a resident of Leverett House,
member of Phillips Brooks House, associate manager of the hockey
team and on the editorial board of the Crimson. Except for service
in World War II, he had been associated with the United Shoe
Machinery Corporation in various positions since graduation. At
the time of our last Report he was sales manager for the Shelton
Eyelet Division of the company. During the war Snyder served in
the Navy aboard the USS Brooklyn which participated in the in-
vasions of Sicily, Anzio and western Italy and was released to in-
active duty as a lieutenant in 1945. He was active in community
affairs, as Cubmaster, board of directors of the YMCA, and the PTA.
He was survived by his wife and children.

* WILLIAM POTTER SOCKMAN

 

BORN: May 19, 1919, New York, N.Y. parents: Ralph Washington Sockman,
~ Zelah Endly.

PREPARED AT: Hill School, Pottstown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939.

piep: April 11, 1940, New York, N.Y.

AFTER three years with our Class, Sockman was forced to give up
his studies because of illness, He was survived by his father.

[ 1236 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SAMUEL SOLL

 

HOME ADDRESS: Meadowridge Road, Manlius, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Bristol Laboratories, Syracuse, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., Cum laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Rose Solomon, Dec. 23, 1950. CHILDREN: Linda Jean, April & tots,
Mark Joel, March 16, 1955; Gail Lisa, April 1, 1957; Kevin Richard, Nov.
I, 1958.

OCCUPATION: Chemist; project supervisor, design and technical adminiaraton
of overseas plants.

OFFICES HELD: Democratic District Committeeman, 1959-63, vice-presaiene,
Thomas Jefferson Lodge, B’nai B'rith, 1956.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; National Geographical Sawiety.
American Association for the Advancement of Science; B'nai B'rith.

I HAVE been particularly fortunate in always having been able
to enjoy the various jobs I have had and the positions I have hebd.
While chance has obviously played a considerable part in this,
am certain that the four years spent at Harvard as an undergraduate
and the subsequent three spent there working with Profewor
Grinnell helped by broadening my interests.

My belief that government should play a partin a limited redestet-
bution of wealth so that less fortunate individuals may enjoy the
fruits of our opulent society has never wavered. This belicf was
strengthened as a result of several trips to various South Ameriwan
countries where the extreme poverty of a large proportion of the
population made a lasting impact. However, this belicf hay been
strongly tempered during the past several years by the fechng the
the methods by which our government extends this aad must be
improved.

My children have been a source of continued interest in current

[ 1237]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

education and this interest was sharpened when my wife decided
to return to university life. While she has been pleased that she
has again been able to cope with the rigid discipline of college, I
have been surprised at her ability to perform so very well in the
triple role of mother, housewife and student.

1 shall consider myself fortunate indeed if the next twenty-five

years prove to be as rewarding and as satisfying as the past have
been.

PETER HERMAN SOLOMON

 

HOME apprEss: 140 Brattle St., Cambridge 38, Mass.

OFFICE AppREsS: % J. M. Herman Shoe Co., Millis, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, Roxbury, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

Maariep: Barbara L. Miller, May 13, 1940. cHtLpreN: Peter Herman, Jr., Aug.
24, 1942; Maida Elizabeth, March 8, 1946; Daniel Miller, April 5, 1950-

HARVARD SON: Peter Herman Solomon, Jr., ’64.

HARVARD BROTHER: H. Eric Solomon, ’50, A.M,, 52, PH.D. ’58.

occupation: President and treasurer, J. M. Herman Shoe Company, men’s
shoe manufacturers,

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Men’s Footwear Division, North American Factory
Management Conference, 1962-63; chairman, Labor Relations Committee,
since 1964, director, since 1964, National Shoe Manufacturers Association;

faculty associate, East House, Radcliffe College, since 1963; class agent,
Roxbury Latin School, 1940-52.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Boston; Standard Club of Chi-
cago; Cambridge Tennis Club; Boston Boot and Shoe Club.
OF SELF

When I was young I heard my elders state that time would
temper all things. I must still be young, for the passage of years
does not yet seem to have blunted my opinions or dulled the edge

[ 1238 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of some of my precipitate actions. The twenty-fifth year out of
Harvard finds my optimism and my belief that a sense of humor
solves many problems still intact. There follow a few random re-
ports and thoughts on subjects that are perhaps pertinent to a
Twenty-fifth Reunion Report.

OF WIFE

Here I have been a lucky man. I married Barbara Miller in May,
1940, as she was graduating from Radcliffe and I from Harvard.
Barbara has managed in twenty-five years to raise three children, get
a Ph.D. in American civilization from Radcliffe, write two books
and numerous articles, make many speeches (one of which was given
at the White House last February), teach history, and at the
moment hold two jobs— associate dean of Radcliffe and dean of
East House and director of the Women’s Archives at Radcliffe. (A
research library concerned with the history of women.) During this
time, she has never forsaken her husband or her family and has
managed to be with us be it in Cambridge, Massachusetts, Harrison,
Maine, or Champex, Switzerland.

OF CHILDREN

Our three children have brought us great joy, pride, and satisfac-
tion. Peter, Jr., graduated magna cum laude from Harvard in June,
1964, and was awarded a fellowship as Russian Institute Scholar at
Columbia University for 1964-65. Not only is he proficient in his
field but he is a fine and dedicated musician devoting much time to
singing, accompanying, and conducting. My daughter Maida ts a
sophomore at Radcliffe. She is a beautiful, sensitive, competent, and
intelligent young lady with a true love for life and people. My son
Dan is a freshman at Rivers Country Day School in Weston. We
are glad that we still have him at home, keeping us young in spirit
and making us feel our age as we attempt to keep up with him in
tennis, Scrabble, and studies. I really believe that he works harder
and longer than any of us.

OF CAREER

After graduation I felt an obligation to support my wife (neces-
sary then — now I am not so sure) and entered a family business, the
Joseph M. Herman Shoe Company. For some years I have been
president and treasurer of this company and have enjoyed the ups
and downs and excitements of the shoe manufacturing business. I
divide my time between two factorics — one in Millis, Massachusetts,

[ 1239]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

and one in Scarborough, Maine. I have served as chairman of the
Men’s Footwear Division of the North American Factory Manage-
ment Conference and I am a director of the National Shoe Manufac-
turers Association. I believe that an enlightened human being can
have an interesting and stimulating career in business. The art of
business is the art of dealing with and trying to understand and per-

suade people. This I enjoy.

OF HARVARD

I have been asked at times what I learned at Harvard. I think that
I know the answer. I learned to doubt and to make a judgment.
Living as we do on Brattle Street in Cambridge and because of my
wife’s career, we are part of the Harvard Community. [ have
watched Harvard somewhat from the inside and somewhat from the
outside for twenty-five years. I am convinced that it will remain
great as long as it remains dedicated to freedom (academic and other-
wise) and truth, and because of this dedication that it will continue
to attract and hold a distinguished faculty and to produce a dis-
tinguished, articulate, and devoted Alumni.

OF THE TWENTY-FIFTH REUNION

I believe that it will be rewarding and fun for all who come. I
hope that you will find all services from food and liquor to give-
aways and transportation satisfactory.

OF POLITICS AND RELIGION

I claim to be an independent voter, I am certain that politics and
religion offer men the best means for being both right and mis-
understood at the same time.

OF LIFE AND LOVE
Both have given much more to me than I have given to them. I
am so grateful for both.

[ 1240 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEON SOMERS

  

HOME AppREss: 10 Nutmeg Lane, Andover, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 250 Canal St., Lawrence, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Brookline High School, Brookline, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., Cu7 laude, 1940; ED.M., 1963.
MarRIED: Barbara C. Caplan, Nov. 17, 1946. CHILDREN: Lonnie (daughter),
March 10, 1948; Jo Ann, July 14, 1950; Harry Jordan, Feb. 8, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Principally sales and other duties in family organization.
OFFICES HELD: Classification officer, Amphibious Training Command, San Dicgo,
Calif., and First Naval District, 1944-46.

MEMBER OF: American Personnel and Guidance Association; American Psy-
chological Association; Phi Delta Kappa.

THIS summary is really my application for the honor of being
“Class Tortoise.” As I look back over the twenty-five years since
graduation —I am not sure that I can find them. This has to de
with more than the bifocals I staunchly refuse to admit needing. Ie
goes something like this:

I hope to graduate this fall (candidate for Ed.D., 1965). The
graduation twenty-five years ago was only for practice. 1 started
to warm up to the thing a little more when I marched again in the
summer of 1963. On that last occasion President Pusey gave me a
Master’s degree and my then ten-year-old son gave me some advice:
“Don’t graduate on hot, sunny days.”

I suppose it all really did begin on that impressive day in 1yqo. I
began by continuing with the vocation which had supported me very
well during those depression years. My two brothers and I were
running the trucking company my father had started in the early
’20’s. I was doing purchasing, personnel and labor relations, Those
were the days when the industry was being organized by labor, and
the struggle was vigorous and challenging. But it lasted only two

[1241]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

years, and in the spring of 1942 I became an ensign in the Naval
Reserve. On the strength of my personnel background and the
scope of Psych. A, the Navy dubbed me “psychologist” and sent me
off to Solomons, Maryland, to devise ways of assigning trainees to
billets on amphibious craft. My success was assured when it was
learned that I was the guy who decreed that men over six feet tall
would no longer be assigned to LCT engine rooms — which were
four feet high.

Things moved pretty fast for the rest of the war. After the
amphibs got going, we switched to pre-psychiatric screening of
combatants being shifted from the European theatre to the Pacific.
This part of our work was crucial, and really explains this perennial
graduation kick that I am on. We had a unique opportunity to
work with literally hundreds of thousands of cases and the results
were too important to be lost. So— when things subsided some-
what —I collected that material and wrote a manual of procedures
which earned me a citation and, more important, a desire to stay in
the field.

After the war I tried to implement that desire, but failed because
of lack of the formal training which only graduate study could
provide, So I went back into the family business, determined not to
get married until I was well established. But that was four days be-
fore I met Barbara. Four days after I met her I made the best
decision that I have ever made, (O.K.—so I had a little help.)

It has been warm and wonderful since then. Good luck all the
way — with three wonderful children; the fun and sweat of building
a house in a lovely town in which to live; the “acquisition stage”
when that second car is so damned important; and then the gradual
shift as the children grow and nobody really cares about the old
couch which ought to be recovered. New values begin to bubble
up inside: Barbara finds deep satisfaction in her work as head of the
English Department in a private school; Lonnie decides to try for
Abbot Academy and makes it; and the aging tortoise finds he has a
soft spot in his shell — and knocks again on Harvard’s door!

Why? It’s simple, really: if one career is good — two are better.
Anybody crawling my way? If you are, I promise this: you will

find your old school richer, riper, more satisfying and more stimulat-
ing than ever.

[1242 ]

__|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

AUGUSTUS WHITTEMORE SOULE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 15 Common St., Dedham, Mass. 02026
OFFICE ADDRESS: Herrick, Smith, Donald, Farley & Ketchum, 294 Washington
St., Boston, Mass. 02108.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1940; LL.B. 1943.

MaRRIED: Mary Whitner Rogers, April 26, 1947. CHILDREN: Augustus Whitte-
more, 3d, May 2, 1951; Martha Rogers, Feb. 21, 1953; Robert Grove,
Jan. 12, 1958.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Winsor Soule, 2d, 44 (deceased); Richard Havelock Soule,
50, M.B.A., "52.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer, specializing in probate work; partmer, Herrick, Smith,
Donald, Farley & Ketchum.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, Peter Bent Brigham Hospital, since 1957, treasurer,
Children’s Museum, since 1957; trustee, Dexter School, since 1963; direc-
tor, United Community Services of Greater Boston, since tg6o, vestry+
man, St. Paul’s Episcopal Church, Dedham, 1960-62; Town Meeting Mem-
ber, Dedham, Mass., since 1961; graduate president, Phoenix S.h. Club,
since 1963.

MEMBER OF: Dedham Country & Polo Club; Duxbury Yache Club; Harvard
Varsity Club; Thursday Evening Club; City Club Corporation; Dedham
Tennis Club; American and Boston Bar Associations.

AFTER graduation, being unwilling and unprepared to find a job,
I entered Harvard Law School where I continued my Sephomoernc
existence and managed to attain a superficial knowledge of the law.
Thanks to the Law School’s accelerated program in those years, |
succeeded in graduating and passing the bar exam just before [was
drafted. I was very fortunate to serve in Military Intelligence where
I was commissioned and which gave me the opportunity to sce the
Pacific. The war proved to me, for the first time, the value of a
Harvard education, and taught me to respect another person's point
of view. After the war, I went to work with the law finn of

[ 1243 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Herrick, Smith, Donald, Farley & Ketchum where I have been ever
since. I started by doing tax work but soon shifted to the probate
and estate field which I found more interesting and rewarding. I]
became a partner of the firm in 1957. My practice consists mainly in
dealing with people which fits in nicely with my inclinations and
abilities. .

My hobbies consist of playing the banjo much too loudly and
collecting mediocre stamps. We spend every summer in Duxbury
where I spend most of my vacation unsuccessfully fishing for
striped bass. I have become a Harvard football buff and every
Saturday you will find me in the Stadium loudly giving the team the
benefit of my advice. For twelve years after the war, I was active in
the Army Reserve which gave me a needed change of pace.

By a stroke of good luck, my wife and I settled in Dedham after
our marriage and have lived there ever since. We started out in a
garage apartment and have now graduated to a large comfortable
Victorian house which we are slowly redecorating. I find the
people, the pace and the environment in Dedham so much to my
liking that I have little desire to travel. While in college, I often
thought I would go into teaching but my eight years as a Sunday
School teacher have cured me of that ambition. I have been reason-
ably active in civic affairs in Dedham including running the United
Fund Drive and serving as president of the local P.T.A.

My three children are extremely active and keep my wife and
me absorbed. We find the problem of their education most in-
teresting.

I am a conservative Republican but I did not vote for Gold-
water. I am optimistic about the future of our country and the
world. The older I get, the less I seem to worry. I am eagerly
awaiting our Twenty-fifth Reunion.

[ 1244 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

HARRY WEBB SOUTHWICK

 

HOME ADDRESS: 322 Kenilworth Ave., Kenilworth, III.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 30 N. Michigan Ave., Chicago, Ill. 60602.

PREPARED AT: East Grand Rapids High School, East Grand Rapids, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1936-1940, DEGREES: S.B., cum laude, 1940; M.D., 1943.

MaRRIED: Lorraine Hinsdale, June 27, 1942. CHILDREN: Harry Webb, Jr. July
27, 1944; Sandra, Sept. 25, 1945; Charles Howard, Sept. 15, 1948, Gay,
April 25, 1950. |

HARVARD BROTHER: Christopher Howard Southwick, ’45, m.p., 48.

OCCUPATION; Surgeon,

OFFICES HELD: Clinical professor of surgery, University of Illinois College of
Medicine, since 1963; director of Tumor Clinic and associate attending
surgeon, Presbyterian-St. Luke’s Hospital, Chicago, attending surgeon,
University Research and Educational Hospitals; attending surgeon, St.
Francis Hospital, Evanston, Illinois; secretary-treasurer, 1957-63, Vice-presi-
dent, 1963-64, president, 1964-65, Society of Head and Neck Surgeons,
president, Chicago Unit, American Cancer Society.

MEMBER OF: American Surgical Association; American College of Surgeons,
Western Surgical Society; Central Surgical Association; Society of Head
and Neck Surgeons; Society of Surgery of the Alimentary Tract, Warren
H. Cole Society; James Ewing Society, Minnesota Surgical Society, Chi-
cago Institute of Medicine; Westmoreland Country Club; Kenilworth
Club; Harvard Varsity Club; Harvard Club of Chicago.

pusLications: Author of fifty-two articles in medical literature dealing pri-
marily with the treatment of neoplastic disease.

[1245 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

EVANS SPEER

 

-AILING ADDRESS: 15181 Hume Drive, Saratoga, Calif.

KENNETH MONROE SPENCE

       
   

ogg 8 .

\

HOME AppRESS: 101 Twin Brooks Lane, Fairfield, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, Inc., 383 Madison Ave.
New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. George’s School, Newport, R.I.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

a
‘eal
ca

MarrigD: Barbara Earnshaw, June 19, 1944. CHILDREN: Kenneth Monroe, 34,

Sept. 13, 1946; Christopher E., July 21, 1949; Hilary B., July 28, 1950.
HARVARD BROTHER: Lewis Henry Spence, ’42.

OCCUPATION: Account executive, advertising agency.
MEMBER OF: Fairfield Beach Club.

AFTER leaving the ivied halls of Harvard that fateful June day in
1940, the first contact I had with the cold, cruel world of business
was as a salesman in the cosmetics department of Lord & Taylor’s,

[ 1246 ]

ed

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the New York department store. Although the wage by today’s
standards would not keep a church mouse alive, the job had certain
other compensations — I was the only male in the department hawk-
ing electric razors, shaving lotions, hair brushes, etc.

With the U.S, entry into World War II, I left this idyllic spot of
all fun and no pay to become a ship’s purser aboard merchant
vessels transporting troops and materiel. In three and a half years
I managed to observe the seamiest sides of Casablanca, Algiers, Oran,
Palermo, Naples, Marseilles, Liverpool, Antwerp, etc. despite fre-
quent intrusions by enemy aircraft and naval forces upon my course
of study of foreign customs and languages. With the conclusion of
hostilities and the necessity to earn a livelihood again — this time
for two since I married in 1944 — I decided a return to retailing was
not my cup of tea and somehow or other wound up with Life
magazine as a merchandising specialist —I never did figure out
exactly why or what I was doing for the greater glory of Mr.
Luce’s publishing empire.

After a year and a half singing the praises of Life magazine as
the greatest advertising medium since the invention of the printing
press, I joined the Boston office of Batten, Barton, Durstine &
Osborn, Inc. known more familiarly in the advertising field as BBDO.
BBDO-Boston at that time (1947) operated as a sort of independent
Harvard Club since it was almost mandatory to have attended the
institution on the Charles River. Francis W. Hatch, Harvard
Class of ’19 and manager of the office — was fond of announcing
what we needed was a man from Boston College or Tufts or Holy

Cross to inject new blood and thinking. Invariably the next recruit
would report on Monday morning clutching a Harvard degree. If
nothing else, it made for congeniality and office harmony.

In 1950 I was transferred to the New York office where no one
had ever heard of Mt. Auburn Street, Soldiers’ Field Road or
Massachusetts Avenue. Since then we have lived in Fairfield, Con-
necticut, close to New Haven under the nose of the Yale bulldog,
raising and educating three teen-agers with varying degrees of
success. This is the world of the hour and fifteen-minute commute
to the New York rat race. I have accepted it and live with it for
better or worse —in fact it becomes a way of life you mss if
separated from it.

[ 1247 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

GORDON ABBOTT SPENCER

 

ME ADDRESS: 26545 Mazur Drive, Palos Verdes Peninsula, Calif.

ice appress: M{CFA, Space Systems Division, Air Force Unit P.O., Los
Angeles, Calif.

:PARED AT: Trinity School, New York, N.Y.

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1940(54).

rriep: Edith Fern Baxter, Jan. 10, 1942 (divorced 1947); Patricia Ruth
Sholders, June 3, 1949. CHILDREN: David James, May 5, 1943; Robert Mc-
Coy, March 7, 1950; Margaret Abbott, Jan. 10, 1953; Elizabeth Ann, June
15, 1955.

vpation: Colonel, U.S. Air Force; currently involved with the logistic sup-
port and planning for Air Force space program.

SURPRISING but easily predictable failure to graduate with the
t of the Class led to my entrance into the Army Flying Cadet pro-
um in December, 1940, and a commission in 1941. The Army Air
rps and its logical evolution, the U.S. Air Force, have been my
> for twenty-four years and that life has been very satisfying.
To say that a Harvard education fitted me well for my life's
rk may be misunderstood but is nonetheless true. My service
; been extremely varied and the mathematics, physics, chemistry,
logy, and astronomy | studied in college have been used con-
ntly. As examples, I learned to operate and maintain the earliest
borne radar used for blind bombing, 1 taught nuclear physics
officers who were training to assemble the early post-war atomic
mbs, and [I’ve been trained and worked in navigation, meteor-
gy, and biological warfare. When Sputnik I shook us up in
tober, 1957, I was already involved in ballistic missile work and
s eventually responsible for development of the IRBM and ICBM
ining programs for Air Training Command. In my present job,

[ 1248 ]

ee

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I am trying to assure that our new space and missile projects get
adequate logistic support.

I have lived all over the United States and in England, France.
and Italy as well as a year in northern Greenland. I've loved the
variety of experience and the moving around inherent in a military
career. I have no conception of what it must be like to live in one
place and work at one job for a lifetime. Naturally, my friends are
almost exclusively service people, and I find that I am uncomfort-
able around “civilians” because we don’t understand each other and
we have few experiences in common.

Military officers are traditionally conservative and I am no excep-
tion. So much for politics.

I have had an adequate number of wives and children but feel
that life would be very dull without them. The children have
finally attained enough maturity to permit of some companionship.
And it gets better each year.

In summary, it has been a life of some disappointments, a few
successes, lots of happiness, and eager anticipation of the years to

come. I never had it so good.

STEPHEN HARRIS SQUIBB

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Westminster School, Simsbury, Conn.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B,, 1940.

MarrieD: Margaret Benedict, Aug. 9, 1943. CHILDREN: Stephen Hlarrig Jr.
May 23, 1944; Sally Robinson, July 19, 1945; Margaret Wheeler, July 3,
1958.

HARVARD BROTHER: George Sampson Squibb, Jr., ’36.

occupaTION: Teacher and athletic director.

MEMBER OF: Saunderstown Yacht Club.

[ 1249 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

AFTER graduation from college I went back to Milton Academy
to teach. As I had received my naval commission upon graduation,
I was called to active duty on November rst, 1940. After two
months on one of the old Eagle boats, I was given command of a
ninety-seven-foot minesweeper, and each year after that I took
command of one twenty feet longer, ending up with a 220-foot one
in 1944. We ended up sweeping for the Okinawa invasion and after
the war we went to China and swept up many mines for the
Chinese. I went on inactive duty in April of 1946. Looking back
at these years, they were not all bad and I have many pleasant
memories of them along with several bad ones. I am sure that my
naval career did me no harm.

In September of 1948 I came to Westminster School and have
been here ever since. At present I am athletic director, head base-
ball coach, teach Spanish and have a dormitory. This is a very
pleasant life and I enjoy working with boys and I like to feel that
in a small way I have helped a few.

The three best things about school teaching are June, July and
August, and I spend as much of them as possible, cruising the New
England coast in our twenty-eight-foot sloop with my wife and
children. .

WARWICK BROOKE STABLER

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Harvard Club, 27 W. 44th St. New York, N.Y. 10036.

[1250]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID STEARNS STACEY

  

HOME ADDRESS: 601 Baseline Rd., Boulder, Colo.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ball Brothers Research Corp., Industrial Park, Boulder, Colo.

PREPARED AT: Fountain Valley School, Colorado Springs, Colo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; PH.D. (Univ. of Colorade),
195 4.

MARRIED: Joan Lyman Bogert, Sept. 23, 1944. CHILDREN: Wayne Lyman, Feb.
19, 1946; Peter Bogert, June 6, 1948; Kim, July 17, 1953.

OCCUPATION: Satellite and industrial research; chief scientist; administrator,
research and management.

OFFICES HELD: Editor, American White Water Journal, 1958-63.

MEMBER OF: American Physical Society; Institute of Radio Engineers, Amencan
Rocket Society; American Meteorological Society, American Associaton
for the Advancement of Science; Colorado-Wyoming Academy of Scicrwe,
Sigma Xi; Rocky Mountain Harvard Club; Soaring Sociery of Amerea,
Colorado Mountain Club; American Canoe Association; National Rite
Association; National Ski Association; American White Water Assoc.
tion,

WRITING a Class Life calls for answering the question “What
have you been up to the last twenty-five vears?” Probably the best
answer is “living,” although for each of us it means something
different. Living connotes persons, places, and actions, However,
these serve more as landmarks to remember, rather than devery-
tions of what is really important. Here are a few landmarks.

After graduating it was obvious that we would soon be at war.
I joined a flying school and taught Army pilots to handle gliders.
This followed naturally my activities with the Harvard Glider
Club. In the process, I also learned how to fly. Dunoy a full as
the glider program, I returned to Cambridge to do research inv the
war effort. Luckily, I ran into E. B. W ilson, a chemistry: profcxvert
and by far the best teacher I have ever known. Soon [was with han

[1251 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

at the Woods Hole Oceanographic Institute doing research on
underwater explosives. We seemed to have played an important
part in convincing Navy brass to give up TNT for more modern
explosives.

Towards the end of the war, I met a young lady on the Nose
Dive at Stowe, One thing led to another and we were married in
the fall. When the war ended, we decided to become westerners
and migrated to Colorado. Here we raised a family while I struggled
through a Ph.D. in physics at the University of Colorado. This
was complicated and slowed down by my work with the Physics
Department and the Air Force on sounding rockets.

The early days of the rocket program were small potatoes but
full of excitement. The government was actually spending more
money on subsidizing peanuts than on the whole rocket program.
Captured V-2s either blew up on the pad or flew around the land-
scape at low altitudes, White Sands was just a few buildings in the
desert.

Our rocket instrument program had the usual number of failures
and then started producing results. We achieved some scientific
firsts in the study of the solar spectrum and helped experimenters
from both the Air Force and Navy. The program is still active
but with fewer failures and far less excitement.

After graduate work, a chance meeting started a group of us on
an industrial research career. Ball Brothers, the old Mason jar
outfit, offered to set us up to do aerospace and industrial research.
Being in on the ground floor of aerospace was quite a help, and in
eight years we have built our laboratory to over 500 scientists,
engineers, and technicians. Our greatest achievement so far is a
satellite called the Orbiting Solar Observatory. Not only did the
first one work — it worked for two years and produced more data
than can possibly be used. It is also one of the most complicated
satellites launched to date.

Life in Colorado is especially attractive for people who like the
outdoors. There is top-notch skiing an easy two hours from the
house — probably the best areas in the world within five hours.
The kids love it and only the youngest is slower than her parents.
Until recently, the old man flew his sailplane in the summer. The
soaring is great over the prairie and 20,000 feet is often possible.
One spring he went to California and rode the Bishop Wave. It
took only an hour and a quarter to climb to 35,000 feet and return
to the airport. More of a family sport is white water boating. This

[1252 ]

18 ere I I SIT TET

pecan

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

involves fiberglass kayaks which we make ourselves, and rapids
with waves breaking all over you. It’s like skiing but has the lure
of surf and outdoor living. Many of the canyons of the West are
still unspoiled by man and incredibly beautiful. You've never seen
the Grand Canyon until you’ve looked up from the river at some
6000 feet of cliffs.

My present job is chief scientist for Ball Brothers. As such, I
fall victim to the disease of knowing less and less about more and
more. Travel broadens the wrong parts and little time is spent in
the laboratory. But things are never dull. My family and I have
been very lucky. As we have grown up (and older) we have done
a lot of living. Persons and places remind us of something much
deeper. And there is a lot more to come.

GEORGE JAMES STANSFIELD

PS MRCP MAR TRA TB RES EA Ma 8B

  

HOME ADDRESS: 506 Cameron St., Alexandria, Va. 22314.

OFFICE AppRrEss: National War College, Fort McNair, Fourth and P Srrect, $.\V.
Washington, D.C.

PREPARED aT: Woodward School, Washington, D.C.; New Preparatory School,
Cambridge, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarRIED: Anna Bryant Hill, Oct. 20, 1945. CHILDREN: Louisa Westcore, Jan.
12, 1947; James Ross, June 10, 1950.

occuPaTION: Librarian; director of library and historian, National War College.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Advisory Commission on Historical Records, City of
Alexandria, since 1955; book review editor, Military Affairs, way a
1950-63; librarian, American Military Institute, 1943-63; member, board
of directors, Civil War Round Table, Alexandria, 1osg-61, Alewandeta
Association, 1959-62; division historian and thairman, Archives Comanut-
tee, Military Libraries Division, Special Library Association, since tues.

MEMBER OF: Fort McNair Officers Open Mess (associate); SLA. ALAS

[ 1253 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940
A.M.L; Alexandria Association; S.A.R.; Northern Virginia Fine Arts
Association.

pusLications: Contributor, “Cerro Gordo” to Encyclopedia Britannica; articles
and reviews in Military Affairs, Military Librarians Division History in
Special Libraries Association fiftieth anniversary volume, 1959; “The Li-
braries of Military Educational Institutions in the United States,” Special
Libraries, March, 1960; “Impact on U.S. Army Educational System,” in
Army Information Digest, Civil War issue, August, 1961.

FOLLOWING graduation I moved back to Washington and en-
tered government service. First in the National Park Service at
the Lincoln Museum and Arlington, second to the National Ar-
chives and third to the World War I group of the Army Office of
the Chief of Military History. I entered the Reference Section of
the new National War Col lege Library in June of 1948, where I
have remained, becoming librarian at the end of 1961.

Since becoming librarian my problems have been more admin-
istrative than scholarly since I have directed a staff of twenty-three.
Academically, the library must anticipate and assist the needs of the
non-permanent course directors, both military and civilian. Recom-
mendations are first made to the Library Committee of which the
Foreign Affairs Deputy Commandant is chairman. Following the
ambassador’s approval of action taken there, the material is obtained.
Upon receipt in the library, review and original indexing of journals
are made against drafts of courses and items submitted to the course
director for his selection. Following approval by the academic
board of which I am a member, the items selected for the course
are obtained themselves or by permission to reprint individual copies
on a set schedule by our visual aid section.

Since the courses are updated each year, it has kept me busy
to keep up with the new material presenting all available sides or
points of view relating to the problems facing the world and the
organization and policies of the United States to cope with them.

In contrast to the “ivory tower” aspects of my daily routine, two
three-week field trips have taken me as far south as Cape Town
and Buenos Aires. Next fall I shall visit the Middle Fast as far as
New Delhi before returning. Contrasts have included shooting
lions by camera in Kenya to “How the West Was Won,” in cin-
erama with Spanish sub-titles in Buenos Aires. Other contrasts seen
involved both the less fqrtunate citizens in these continents and
efforts to improve their conditions,

My only academic experiment involved me as a joint leader of an

[ 1254 ]

__]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

adult education seminar on the “Philosophy of War,” sponsored by
St. John’s, Annapolis, based upon my work with Military Affairs,
1954-56.

It has been difficult to acquire fixed convictions on the best way
to do things because of my efforts to acquire an understanding in
some depth of the many complex problems and factors involved
in the national and international aspects of the national security.

LEON DAVID STARR

 

HOME ADDRESS: §710 Chatham Rd., Dallas, Texas.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Titche-Goettinger Co., Dallas, ‘Texas.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940.

MarrieD: Adele Louise Landau, Feb. 18, 1943. cHiLDREN: Jonathan Landau,
Dec. 4, 1947; Frederick Lynn, Feb, 26, 1952.

OccUPATION: President, Titche-Goettinger Company (large department store),

OFFICES HELD: President, Texas Retail Federation, 1959-61, president, ty61-64,
chairman of the board, since 1963, Dallas Symphony Orchestra, vice-prew-
dent, Dallas Chamber of Commerce, 1959-61.

MEMBER OF: Newcomen Society in North America; Harvard Clubs of Bostoa
New York and Dallas; Dallas Club; Chaparral Club; Dallas Athletic Club,
DAC Country Club.

AS one of two Dallasites in the Class of ’40, I want to sav that we
are still reacting to the sad events of November 1963. My wife
Adele and I, along with two thousand other people, attended the
Juncheon-that-never-took-place, and shared the shock and sorrow
of this city where we have lived since 1956.

My route from Boston to Dallas has been a devious one. After
graduation I started as a stock boy traince at R. Hl. White Company,
a Boston department store. Came Pearl Harbor, then off to mad-

[1255 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

shipman school at Columbia, commissioned in 1943, married Adele

Landau the day after this, a five-day honeymoon, more naval schools,

sea duty on a D. E. for two years and in December, 1945, enough
oints and out.

Joined Allied Stores in their New York office and started life
on the retail bandwagon. Finally Janded in Dallas as president of
Titche-Goettinger Company, a large department store. We did
our bit for the postwar baby crop with two sons: Jonathan, now
seventeen, and Frederick, aged thirteen.

Life in Dallas is interesting and exciting. Things are being built
here and a newcomer is made welcome and put to work. Among
the most interesting activities in which I have participated have been
serving on a master plan committee for developing Southern Metho-
dist University, and learning how to “kite” checks and “stall” the
Internal Revenue Bureau during my term as president of the Dallas
Symphony Orchestra. As a member of the Citizens Council and
the head of a store, I worked with other community leaders in the
program for peaceful integration of department store facilities,
schools, and employment of Negroes in new areas. I felt proud to
be part of the city that was a model for others in the handling of
this problem. These activities, plus the expansion plans of our
company, still leave a little time for squash, tennis, sailing on the
Texas lakes, and continuing my reading in history and sociology.
All in all, a satisfying existence.

After eight years in Dallas, [ am still impressed by that which
impressed me most when I arrived — the sense of civitas in the true
sense of the word .. . a spirit and an attitude towards the com-
munity that I have found nowhere else. I now feel that we have
our roots here and hope to be able to continue to live and be part
of the growth and development of our city.

[ 1256 ]

2§$TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PHILIP COMFORT STARR

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 8570 Avelon Ct., Alta Loma, Calif.

EDWARD MARVIN STEEL, JR.

Os eh le

eteahragatas Goes

bids ERS

 

HOME AppRESS: 416 Lawnview Drive, Morgantown, VW’. Va.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 214 Woodburn Hall, West Virginia University, Morgantown,
W.Va.
PREPARED AT: Lincoln County High School, Fayetteville, Tenn.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1940; am. (Univ. of
North Carolina), 1950; PH.D. (ibid.), 1953.
MarRIED: Barbara Manley, June 24, 1956. cuitp: Philip Manley, July a. 14.
OCCUPATION: Associate professor of history, West Virginia Univerury.
OFFICES HELD: Private to captain, Air Corps, U.S. Army, 1942~44; instructor im
English, Virginia Polytechnic Institute, 1946-48; fellow, Institure for Re-
search in Social Sciences, University of North Carolina, 1930-53, awawtant
professor of history, Millsaps College, 1952-53; assistant associate profesor
of history, Limestone College, 1953-56; assistant associate profewor of
history, West Virginia University, since 1956.

[1257]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

MEMBER OF: American Historical Association; Mississippi Valley Historical
Association; Southern Historical Association.
puBLICATIONS: I. Butler King of Georgia, 1964.

IT seems likely that most of us will be writing variations on the
same narrative. There was time after graduation for a few deep
breaths before plunging into one of the armed services. Afterwards
we picked up some of the old threads and began to weave them
back together. The resulting fabric has now become a familiar
suit.

My deep breaths were taken while working for an aircraft com-
pany. With the coming of the war I entered the Air Corps, trained
as a pilot, served in the Eighth Air Force and spent the latter part of
the war in enforced idleness as a prisoner in Germany.

For me, picking up the threads meant a return to academic in-
terests. For two years I taught in a college English Department.
After that came four years of graduate study in American history
at the University of North Carolina. From 1952 to 1956 I taught
in colleges in Mississippi and South Carolina.

Just after our marriage in 1956, my wife Barbara and I came to
West Virginia University and we have lived in Morgantown ever
since. Our son Philip was born in 1960. From a suburban home we
watch the advancing tide of more suburban houses and conformity.
Occasionally, we escape from committee assignments — Unitarian
Fellowship, League of Women Voters, Mental Health Association
to go camping, collect some of the higher fungi, or pursue his-
torical documents.

Along the way, I have written some scholarly articles and a
biography of Thomas Butler King, the latter published last May.
T am now well into the research for another biographical study,
but make no predictions about a completion date.

[ 1258 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

KENNETH STERLING

 

HOME ADDRESS: 640 W., 2315St St., Riverdale, Bronx, N.Y. 10463.

OFFICE ApDpREss: Bronx Veterans Administration Hospital, 130 W. Ringsbrulge
Rd., Bronx, N.Y. 10468; Dept. of Medicine, Columbia University, College
of Physicians and Surgeons, 622 W. 168th St. New York, N.Y. ton3:.

PREPARED AT: Townsend Harris High School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940, M.D. (Johns Hop.
kins Univ.), 1943.

MARRIED: Ruth Yanover, March 16, 1947. cHiLD: Donna, Nov. 23. tuA4
(adopted). . ;

OCCUPATION: Physician; clinical investigator, teacher.

OFFICES HELD: Various academic posts at Harvard Medical School, Yale-New
Haven Medical Center and other institutions, prior to 1962, assistant
clinical professor of medicine, Columbia University College of Phywcrans
and Surgeons, since 1962; chief, Medical Section, Bronx Veterans Ad-
ministration Hospital, since 1962; assistant visiting physictan, Fire (Co-
lumbia) Medical Division, Bellevue Hosptal, since 1962, member, etitor:al
board, Endocrinology, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: American Society for Clinical Investiganon (“Young Turks”),
American Association for the Study of Liver Disease, Salt and Wace
Club; American Federation for Clinical Research; New York Acaderoy
of Sciences; Endocrine Society; American Thyroid Association, Ameri an
Medical Association; Harvey Society; Sigma Ni.

PUBLICATIONS: “Determination of the Circulating Red Cell Volume in Man
by Radioactive Chromium,” with S. J. Gray, toso, “The Turnover Rare
of Serum Albumin in Man as Measured by I-Tagged Alburmn,” ict,
“Disappearance from Serum of P"-Labeled L-thyronine and [ -trmeate-
thyronine in Euthyroid Subjects,” with J. C. Lashof and FF. Bo Vln.
1954, “Measurement of Free Thyroxine Concentration in Eliuman Serum,”
with A. Hegedus, 1962, all in Journal of Clinical lrvestiganon, © Dhyrovine
in Blood,” Mayo Clinic Proceedings, 1964, “Molecular Structure of Phy
roxine in Relation to Its Binding by Human Serum Albumin.” Jewrnad of
Clinical Investigation, 1964.

FRIENDS not interested in reading about science may want to skip

[ 1259 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

the first paragraph. My major professional activities are medical re-
search and teaching, both of which require close familiarity with

the progressive developments in the underlying sciences. My own
research has appeared in forty papers, many of them in the Journal
of Clinical Investigation, Most of the work has been in the general
area of metabolism. Radioactive chromium (Cr®!) was introduced
as a label for red blood cells and proteins in work I undertook at the
Biophysical Laboratory at Harvard Medical School and the Peter
Bent Brigham Hospital. Soon after I carried out studies with radio-
iodine (1?) labeled human serum albumin to study the rate at which
the body produces and degrades this important protein in health and
disease. This led eventually to the findings of gastrointestinal pro-
tein loss in a patient as a cause of diminished serum proteins — an
observation that was being made at the same time in two other
laboratories. In the last several years, I have studied the rate of
body turnover of the thyroid hormone, thyroxine, and the problem
of its transport in the circulation. The hormone is bound quite
firmly by several of the serum proteins, and the physical chemistry
of the interaction between the thyroxine molecule and its protein
carriers has been the subject of a number of papers. We have re-
cently developed a method of measuring the unbound or free
thyroxine, which is less than one thousandth of the total hormone
concentration of the blood serum. This minute amount (approxi-
mately 6 x 107!M) is evidently a major determinant of the rate of
removal as well as the physiologic activity of the hormone.
Attendance at scientific meetings and various lectures has taken
me to many countries. I have enjoyed travel combined with Leica
photography; our extensive collection of Kodachromes includes a
comprehensive and vivid record of my three visits to the USSR.
My wife is a writer who has published short stories, one of which
has appeared in numerous anthologies. She is completing a novel
at the present time. Afterwards it may be possible to induce her
to collaborate with me on several science fiction stories I’ve wanted
to see written. A decade or so ago we did some collaborative work
in ghost-writing medical material for the general public. I suppose
this is important but it is not creative and I never found it satisfying.
The household includes two intelligent short-haired cats; my wife
is an ailurophile (coined word for cat-lover, not in dictionaries).
Our daughter, Donna, to be adopted as soon as possible, was born

November 23, 1964, and joined us five days after arrival on this
planet.

[ 1260 }

scope papa pen TE 8D RRP AEH ENR II ETOP I Lae eag ane ae ote AE

———

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

With respect to world issues, I’m in favor of maximal cultural
exchanges with countries with different social systems, | have en-
joyed having foreign scientists visit and work in my laboratory. Vin
against capital punishment and in favor of world disarmament with
a strengthened United Nations. I believe academic freedom muse
be defended continually in all times and under all human social
orders.

Pastimes include fishing and skin and scuba diving. Living in New
York affords unique cultural opportunities such as the off- Broad av
theater. I am still greatly interested in interplanetary travel —— | had
written and published a few science fiction stories earlier, and nat-
urally I am fascinated at the advances since I was a member of the
American Rocket Society in 1935. My view is that interplanetary
travel should be pushed as exploration which may yield totally un-
foreseen information. Is the genetic code really universal? The
nature and manner of development of life on other worlds could
provide questions and answers not dreamed of in’ earth-bound

science.

JOSEPH SMITH STERN, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 3 Grandin PI, Cincinnati 8, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: U.S. Shoe Corp., 1658 Herald Ave. Cincinnati 7, Oh.

PREPARED AT: Lawrenceville School, Lawrenceville, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.B.A., tog}.

marrieD: Mary R. Stern, June 14, 1942. CHILDREN: Peter Joseph, May i, toes.
William Frederick, Jan. 15, 1947; Peggy Ann, Dee, 17, tg

occuPATION: Shoe manufacturer; president and director, U.S. Shae Carper steve.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Cincinnati & Hamilton County Pubbe Dibrarw. seme
1961; vice-president, board of trustees, Cincinnati Country Day Se heed,

[ 1261 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

since 1958; director, Central Trust Company, Cincinnati, since 1961, Na-
tional Shoe Manufacturers Association, since 1962; president, I. M. Wise
Temple, Cincinnati, 1957-59; trustee, Miami Purchase Association, since
1964; treasurer, 1951-61, vice-president, since 1964, president elect, 1965,
Harvard Club of Cincinnati; Cincinnati area chairman, Harvard Fund
Council, 1960-64; member, board of overseers, Visiting Committee on
University Resources, since 1964.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and Cincinnati; Queen City Club,
University Club, Losantville Country Club, Queen City Association, all
in Cincinnati; Cincinnati Civil War Round Table (co-founder); Men’s
Committee, Cincinnati Symphony Orchestra.

pusLicaTions: “The Siege of Cincinnati,” Historical & Philosophical Society
of Ohio, Bulletin, July, 1960, Museum Echoes, Ohio Historical Society,

August, 1961; “The Tragedy of the Crater,” Cincinnati Civil War Round
Table, March, 1957.

BEING interested in archives, I’ve thought about this Report off and
on for almost twenty-five years. It seemed a long way off in 1940,
but it has come around in a hurry.

Haven’t been back in Cambridge enough, not nearly enough —
but each time I return I marvel at what Harvard is doing. Each
time I leave it is with a deep feeling of pride and gratification for
being a part of it. I loved the Yard the first time I saw it in 1936;
] am just as sentimental about it today.

Grew up in Cincinnati, married a Cincinnati girl — via Smith —
and we have raised our family here. Our elder son Pete is a junior
at Williams; Bill is a senior at Cincinnati Country Day and hopes
to go to Harvard next fall; our youngest, Peggy, is an eighth-
grader.

Still retain an active interest in sports—some golf, but enjoy
tennis more. Classmate Harris Weston and I have been doubles
partners for thirty-three years, and compete in local tournaments.

Follow Harvard sports avidly, but in twenty-five years two
events still stand out vividly in my memory —the 14-14 tie with
Princeton in 1936, with those uncanny Stewart to Oakes passes,
and the fabulous swimming victory over Yale in 1937, the first
time Harvard ever beat the Elis. Have also developed a keen in-
terest in fly fishing and so, happily, have Mary and the children. The
highlight of many of our summers is a pack trip in Wyoming for
some exciting fishing at the headwaters of the Yellowstone River.
Memories of these summers “keep me going” all winter.

Entered U.S. Shoe after graduation and have been there ever
since, with time out for four years in the Navy during World War
II. Like many others, our company has grown rapidly since the

[ 1262 ]

Leet CA Atle EER GA EME ERT PONS a Fe SRI OR RR AC SIP CTU SS ET BEM Wry eens BoD TE oe

nl rN Nm ge NPIS

|

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

war and it is stimulating to be a part of it. It takes most of my time,
but being a native Cincinnatian and proud of our community, have
participated in a variety of local activities, including the Cincinnati
Harvard Club.

Hobbies — they vary from making wine, to Civil War history, to
collecting autographed letters of American presidents. Am Jook-
ing forward to our Reunion.

+! DONALD MICHAEL STERNGLANZ

 

BORN: Feb. 5, 1919, Seattle, Wash, PaRENts: Elias Sternglanz, Ethel Mactelson.
PREPARED AT: El Paso High School, El Paso, Texas.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

piep: Killed in acuon, May 1, 1943, off the coast of France.

AFTER graduation Sternglanz worked for the Lockheed Aircrafe
Company before enlisting i in the Army Air Corps in January, to4t.
He received his wings at Mather Field, California, where he was
stationed as an instructor. In January, 1943, he went overseas and
was assigned to combat duty. He was a navigator of a B-17 and had
flown eight missions over enemy territory when he was killed in
action while returning from a bombing mission. He was survived
by his parents.

[ 1263 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

BREWSTER STETSON

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Duck Hill Road, Duxbury, Mass.

CLIFTON DELMAR STEVENS

 

HOME Aporess: 876 Hereford Drive, Akron, Ohio 44303.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Goodyear Aerospace Corp., Akron, Ohio 44315.
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

Marriep: Frances H. Stieff, Aug. 3, 1942. cHilp: Susan Leigh, Feb. 2, 1946
OCCUPATION: Staff engineer, Goodyear Aerospace Corporation.

MEMBER OF: Racquet and Tennis Club, New York City; Acoustical Society of
America.

[ 1264 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBINSON STEVENS

 

HOME AbpREss: Pennsboro Manor, Wormleysburg, Pa.

OFFICE apprEss: Snelling & Snelling, 112 Market St., Harrisburg, Pa.

PREPARED at: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940.

MarRRIED: Dorothy Yoder, April 1, 1944. CHILDREN: Deborah Lee, Feb. 4, 1944;
Cynthia Lee, May 11, 1948; Robinson, Jr., Oct. 10, 1951.

occupPaTion: Owner, Snelling & Snelling, personnel consultants.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of trustees, Progress Presbyterian Church, t96t-
63; member, board of managers, since 1961, treasurer, since 1963, Children's
Home of Harrisburg; director, 1963, treasurer, Project Fund, since 195%
Harrisburg Lions Club, member, board of governors, Country Club of
Harrisburg, 1959-61, president, Susquehanna Township Jumor High
School, 1959-60.

MEMBER oF: Harvard Club of Central Pennsylvania, The Country Club of
Harrisburg; Harrisburg Lions Club; Tuesday Club; Harrisburg Arca
Chamber of Commerce; National Employment Association; Crescent
Lodge, AF. & A.M. (Pittsfield, Mass.); Zembo Temple, A.A.O.N.AMS,
Harrisburg. -

COMPARED to some of my more illustrious classmates, my life since
leaving college would be considered rather dull. Granted it has been
an “average” life, but not knowing any better I must say TP have
enjoyed it.

Like most of our Class I was involved in World War Il, serving
in the U.S. Coast Guard both in the Atlantic and Pacitie Theatres
Toward the end of the war I met an attractive young lady whom I
married a short time later in San Francisco. We have been mase
fortunate in having two lovely (we think) daughters and one
lively (we know) son, Our elder daughter is presently a freshman
at Pennsylvania State University, while the other two children are
still below college age.

[ 1265 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

After my release from the service, I joined Textron as a sales-
man, attached to their Boston office, and set up housekeeping in an
apartment in Brookline. About a year and one child later, lack
of space forced us to purchase a home in Weston. Shortly there-
after, | was transferred to Pittsfield, Massachusetts, where we ac-
quired a second home. Spending less than a year there, my next
move was to Harrisburg, Pennsylvania, where I have remained ever
since.

After leaving Textron, I spent a few years with Harrisburg
Dairies and in January, 1956, opened the Harrisburg branch of
Snelling & Snelling, personnel consultants, now the largest person-
ne] system in the nation.

I find that there are not enough hours in the day to accomplish
all that I would like to do and my wife complains of this also. I
am told that this is merely a sign of approaching old age! At any
rate, we are busy with affairs of family, business, community and
pleasure, leading what we consider a relatively full life.

We are still Republicans, are currently Presbyterians and do not
feel that the younger generation is “going to the dogs.”

I try to retain some of my New England characteristics by spend-
ing a week or so in Maine each summer — sort of a refresher. How-
ever, I think I am fighting a losing battle and feel more and more
like a Pennsylvania Dutchman. And after all, why shouldn’t I? My
wife and children are!

JOHN GAY STEWART

 

HOME appress: 2 W. 67th St., New York, N.Y, 10023,
orFice appRess: New York Times, Times Square, New York, N.Y
prePareD AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass, —

{ 1266 ]

————___.._

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; A.M. (Columbia Univ.), to44.

marrieD: Martha Jean Steffen, March 10, 1945 (divorced 1955); Elelen Market,
April 3, 1958. cHmpren: Mark L., July 7, 1960; Jennifer, Jan. 10, 14.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Edward Stewart, Jr., ’38, Lu.B., ’48.

OccUPATION: Manager of Book Division, New York Times.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, United Press Unit, CIO Newspaper Guild, since
1949; member, board of directors, Cooperative at 2 West 67th Street, since

I .

wiemern oF: Delta Upsilon, Harvard Club of New York; Coffce House Club.
I AM one of the lucky ones. Instead of Widgetsville, Inc., I have
the good fortune to be on the New York Times. It is described in
many ways including as “a great university” and “the poor man’s
C.I.A.” Specialists writing in almost every field of knowledge can
keep anyone with ten cents almost as well informed as daily artend-
ance at the National Security Council.

It is fun to be part of such an organization. For about a year I
have been in charge of a book development program at the Tanes.
Since then various publishers have published fifteen books written
and edited by Times staff members using the paper as their primary
source. One of them, about a classmate who will be missed at our
Twenty-fifth, is a Book of the Month Club selection called The
Kennedy Years.

It has often been said that one should change jobs every five vears
and so with me. Before getting into books, I spent five vears as
article editor of the New York Times Magazine, five years as associ-
ate article editor of This Week Magazine, a and five years as a reporter
and editor at United Press.

To keep going backward, I did start out at Widgctsville, Inc.,
actually a steel parts house called A.A. Milne & Company. It was a
dreary six months between leaving Harvard and my early entry inte
uniform as a member of New York’s Seventh Regiment i in Febru-
ary, 1941. I soon transferred to the Air Force, became a B-2§ pilot,
and while flying out of Ascension Island, a bit of voleamic reck
off the African coast, gained a measure of humility.

To explain how, some background ts needed. On the college
tennis team, Burt, Gilkey, and “Palfrey were always ahead of me
and I thought this was because Coach Barnaby didn't know what
he was doing. At Ascension I became sure since about once a
week I would get an Army private named Gardner Larned out of
KP for tennis. Gardner, nephew of the old champ, was ranked in
the first twenty in 1940 and our matches were always fairly chose,
every so often I won a set. Then one day I got my transfer onder,

[ 1267 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

move on in forty-eight hours. I told Gardner I was leaving as I
got him off a work detail for the final time. We had our last game
of tennis; the private beat the captain 6-0, 6-o. So it’s just possible
Barnaby knew what he was doing all along. Anyway, I’m taking
up golf.

While in the Army, I was based near Savannah for a year and
did some reporting for that city’s newspaper. Also I managed to
sell a couple of magazine articles while abroad. So, after the war
I left Widgetsville and went to the Columbia School of Journalism
on the G.I. Bill.

Some years later I had the greatest good fortune to meet Helen
Markel in Rosalind Russell’s dressing room in a theatre in Wilming-
ton, Delaware. The actress was preparing to come into New York
with “Auntie Mame” and Helen and myself had been assigned to
write magazine articles on the lady by separate magazines.

Not long afterward Helen and [ decided to avoid the expense
of separate typewriters. As a result we have the expense, and well
worth it, of going-on-five Mark L. and going-on-one Jennifer. We
live on Central Park West across the street from the Tavern on the
Green and not far from Lincoln Center. We summer in Bell Island,
a village on the Connecticut shore near Darien, the town where
the school buses have club cars.

RALPH STICKLE, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 1147 Summit St., St. Albans, W.Va.

[ 1268 ]

__]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID STILES

C

   

HOME ADDRESS: 567 Riverside Drive, North Tarrytown, N.Y.

OFFICE ADpRESS: 140 N. Broadway, Irvington-on-Hudson, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.D., 1943.

MARRIED: Virginia C. McGrath, May 12, 1945. CHILDREN: Elizabeth Rankin,
Sept. 2, 1947; Joanne Russell, Dec. 2, 1948; David Marvin, June 21, tg53.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Sumner Stiles, °46.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant in pediatrics, Columbia University College of Phys-
cians and Surgeons, since 1949; director, Tappan Zee Nfental Health Cen-
ter, 1954-61; member, Medical Advisory Committee, Westchester County
Chapter, National Cystic Fibrosis Foundation, since 1961.

MEMBER OF: New York State and Westchester County Medical Societies,
American Medical Association; American Academy of Pediatrics; Har-

vard Club of New York; Southport (Maine) Yacht Club.

AFTER medical school, internship, Army service for two years and
a residency in pediatrics, I settled in this area and have spent the last
sixteen years trying to keep pace with a growing family of three
and an active pediatric practice. This combination has made cach
new day as challenging as the last. The best prescription for mect-
ing them seems to have been a return to the Maine coast each sum-
mer. Up there one seems to have a greater opportunity to reflect on,
as one neighbor so aptly termed them, “the eternal veritics” of life,

[ 1269 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JOHN STERLING STILLMAN

 

4E ADDRESS: 1556 34th St. N.W., Washington, D.C. 20007.

‘CE appRESS: Room 5417, U.S. Dept. of Commerce, Washington, D.C.

*arED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

25 IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., cU7# laude, 1940; LL.B. (Columbia

Univ.), 1947.

niED: Margaret Drinker Riley, Aug. 26, 1944. CHILDREN: Nathaniel, Oct.

3, 1946, Linda Brooks, Nov. 7, 1948; John Whitney, Jan. 25, 1952.

arD soN: Nathaniel Stillman, ’68.

ARD BROTHER: Calvin Whitney Stillman, ’39.

pation: Government official; Deputy to the Secretary of Commerce for

Songressional Relations.

ES HELD:

jovernment: Division counsel, National Production Authority (US.

Jepartment of Commerce), 1951; legislative counsel, Congressman F. D.

oosevelt, Jr., 1952; regional enforcement commissioner, National En-
orcement Commission (wage stabilization), 1952-53; member, New York
rate Bridge Authority (chairman, 1957-60), 1956-61; director, American
ridge, Tunnel & Turnpike Association, 1958-60; Deputy to Under Sec-
tary, U.S. Department of Commerce, 1961-62, Deputy to Secretary of
ommerce for Congressional Relations, 1963-64.

usiness: Trustee, family trusts, and director, from time to time, of 4
imber of small corporations.

vic and Educational: Director, Citizens Housing & Planning Council,
53-61; board member, National Urban League, 1953-56; trustee, Storm
ing School, since 1952; county campaign chairman, March of Dimes,
50; National Council, USO, 1955-57; board member, City Club of New
ork, 1953-57; chairman, National Advisory Council, American Veterans
ymmittee, 1963-64.

litical: Secretary, director, vice-president, New York Young Demo-
atic Club, Inc., 1948-50, 1953-54; chairman, Democratic Committee,
ange County, N.Y. 1954-51; delegate, Democratic State Conventions,
0, 1952, 1954, 1958; delegate, Democratic National Conventions, 1955,

[ 1270 ]

——_—___

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

1960; deputy coordinator, National Citizens and other independent Com-
mittees for Johnson and Humphrey, 1964.

MEMBER OF: New York: Harvard Club of New York, National Democrat
Club, Orange County Society. Washington: Harvard Club of Washing-
ton, Metropolitan, National Press, National Capital Democratic, Interna-
tional, National Lawyers, New Frontier and Burro Clubs; New York Scare
Society. Orange County: Black Rock Fish & Game, Cornwall Yacht and
Cornwall Clubs; Monroe & New Windsor House Thief Detecting So-
ciety. Professtonal: New York State, New York City, Maritime Law,
Federal and Orange County (N.Y.) Bar Associations; Academy of
Political and Social Science; D.C. Political Science Association. Fra-
ternal, Patriotic and Veterans: Masons; Elks; Moose; Order of Lafavette,
AVC; VFW; American Legion. Historical Societies: Temple Hill, News
burgh Bay; Mystic Seaport, Brownsville (Texas).

MY greatest interest in the twenty-five years since leaving college

has been politics and government service —as the best means of

helping people and promoting the “better life.” My profession is
the law and, as a result, I have virtually had a “three-track” carcer.

As I write this in late November, 1964, the country has been
observing the tragedy of a year ago — when the country and the
world lost our great classmate, President Kennedy. This is not the
place to attempt to assess or measure that loss, but it certainly cast
a pall over the festivities and successes of the Yale Game weekend,
and will be very much in our minds at our Reunion next June,

The overwhelming vote given the national Democratic tuckct
this year must be considered not only a repudiation of Goldwartcr-
ism but a vote of confidence in the leadership of President Johnson.

I participated in the recent campaign as deputy coordinator of
the National Citizens for Johnson and Humphrey. This was the first
time I have been at the national level; in previous | vears IT worked as
precinct committeeman, county chairman, and w ith the St: ate Com.
mittee.

A career in politics and government is stimulating and rewarding
but hard on one’s wife and children. Meg has been very pacient and
loyal through the years, and it is a personal satisfaction that my
two boys have developed a keen interest in history and polines,
and overcome any resentment at the many weekends and evenness
I could not be at home with them.

The first summer after college I worked in the presidential came
paign of that year until entering Yale Law School with about ten
of our classmates. When Japan joined the axis that October, Twas
very glad that I had an ensign’s commission from the Hfarvard

ROTC,
[1271 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

and real estate, with a little corporate. One of my more pleasant
tasks was reading the Ickes Diaries for libel. "

My interests, in spite of myself, kept turning to politics and public
affairs — and I found the time I spent in civic activities such as the
National Urban League, Citizens Housing and Planning Council and
Municipal Affairs Committee of the Association of the Bar (NYC)
most rewarding. I found myself engaged in a hot and bitter primary
contest for the County Chairmanship. I was elected in October,
1954, and from then until I went to Washington for the Kennedy
inaugural my time was not my own. We then built a year-round
house (designed by John Johansen, ’38), and the children, who had
been in private schools in Washington and New York City, had
the broadening experience of attending the local public schools.
And, we, their parents, learned that the qualities of individual teach-
er and the brightness of the others in a class make more difference
than the type of school.

In 1956, Governor Harriman appointed me to the New York State
Bridge Authority which is responsible for five Hudson River cross-
ings from Bear Mountain on the South to Catskill on the north. I
became chairman of the Authority in 1957. During my tenure, we
completed a new bridge at Kingston and commenced one at New-
burgh, the latter replacing an historic ferry service that operated
under a charter granted in Colonial Times (1741). I also became
active in and an officer of the American Bridge Tunnel and Turn-
pike Association.

Meanwhile I practised law in Newburgh, served as a Delegate to
the 1956 Democratic National Convention at Chicago — again work-
ing for Governor Harriman’s nomination — and was engaged in State
political affairs. In the summer and fall of 1959 and spring of 1960
I worked to get Jack Kennedy the support of New York State’s
Convention Delegation — over the resistance, until the very last,

of our State Chairman and National Committeeman. Our success.

was indicated by the 104'4 out of 114 votes cast at Los Angeles.
After returning from California, | organized Citizens for Kennedy
in, and served as Kennedy-Johnson campaign coordinator for, the
ten counties of the Hudson Valley.

I learned on Inauguration Day that I was to go to work at once
in the Commerce Department. For the first two years I served as
Deputy to Under Secretary Gudeman (’27).

In January, 1953, I assumed my present position, to which I have
now returned after the campaign, of Deputy to Secretary Hodges

[ 1274]

CTY AERP FE EP ae Ara Nant NSIT fete Pe, Ect RRO, TI ERPS

poe

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

for Congressional Relations. I am responsible not only for “hobbs -
ing” for our department’s legislative program on the Ell (a shyhels
unconstitutional posture which might bother “Separation of Power”
purists) but also servicing the 535 members of both Blousey ther
staffs and their Committee staffs and their constituent Pepesty,

After the flak we experience when we close a one-man weather
station, I sympathize with what Seerctary McNamara must go
through to close a Navy Yard or Air Base.

Despite the present serious problems in Southeast Ava and Afra,
I think the Test Ban Treaty and Sino-Sovict split allow us wone
hope for a relatively peaceful world. I am confident that our form
of government is effectively serving the needs of our people amd
encouraging our economy to grow to keep up with our popula
tion explosion. I hope to continue as part of that government.

ROBERT HERMAN STOBBELAAR

 

HOME ApprEss: 78 Grand Ave., Grand Haven, Mich.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1310 Wisconsin Ave., Grand Haven, Mich.

PREPARED AT: Grand Rapids Central High School, Grand Rapidly Wah,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREE: M.D. (Univ. of Michigans, toat

MARRIED: Roberta Burns, Dec. 25, 1943. Cuttpars: Richard Jareaq bate 04
1945; Karen L., Nov. 3, 1947.

OCCUPATION: Physician.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president and president, Ottawa County Viedbe oe Neer
1951-53; member, board of directory, Grand Pfaven Ohastae nf € 546
merce, 1952~55, Grand Haven Rotary Club, tgs 4 44,

MEMBER OF: Michigan Medical Society; American Medial Newsy career Sent
ican Society of Abdominal Surgeons.

AFTER leaving Harvard College T finished mw premecdaal qous ve
at Grand Rapids Junior College and the Universty ef Piven. ee

[ 1275]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

matriculated at the University of Michigan Medical School, ob-
taining my M.D. degree in 1943. After a year’s internship at St,
Mary’s Hospital in Grand Rapids, Michigan, I entered service with
the Army and served overseas in the ETO, with an armored combat
command team in the 16th Armored Division. I returned to St.
Mary’s Hospital after the war and finished my surgical residency
at St. Mary’s Hospital and the University of Michigan Hospital
in Ann Arbor, Since that time I have been in practice in Grand
Haven, Michigan.

I married Roberta Burns during my internship and we have two
children, a boy, nineteen, and a girl, seventeen. Our family enjoyed
the privilege of having two foreign exchange students living with
us, a boy from Finland and a girl from Mexico. Fortunately, a
Mexican-Finnish war has not yet broken out in the two years they
have been back home.

We have vacationed in Mexico, Jamaica, Panama and Colombia,
Arizona, Florida, Virginia and in our own northern Michigan
during the skiing season. In the summer, of course, we are in the
midst of the Lake Michigan resort area and need not travel to
enjoy summer sport activities.

Politically, I am relatively inert, letting my wife take over the
active part in Citizens for Michigan, in which she served on the
board of directors, and which launched George Romney into the
governorship of Michigan and potentially the White House. She
is still actively engaged in the local and state League of Women
Voters.

[ 1276 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DANA WILLARD STOCKBRIDGE

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 1908 Florida Ave., N.W., Apt. 133, Washington, D.C. 20009.

JAMES JACKSON STORROW, JR.

 

HOME AporEss: 1133 Fifth Ave., New York, N.Y.

OFFICE ApprEss: Trident Films, Inc., 400 Madison Ave., New York, N.Y
PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940(41)

MARRIED: Patricia Blake, June 26, 1940 (deceased); Linda Fder Jamieson, Dee

15, 1962. CHILDREN: Gerald B., July 15, 1944; Peter, Sept. 26, 1946, Arthur
R,, June 7, 1948; Margaret R., Jan. 4, 1955.

occuPATION: Associate producer, Trident Films, Inc

OFFICES HELD: Director, Housing Association of Metropolitan Boston, ag¢4 4%
Catholic Guild for the Blind, since 1955, Aledical Foundanor, rytc 42,
trustee, New England College of Pharmacy, 1949-61; member, Browhline
Democratic Town Committee, 1960-62.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of Boston and New York; Overseas Prew Chub
PUBLICATIONS: Publisher, Tbe Nation Centennial Fdition

[ 1277 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

NORTH Shore Players, Inc. (summer theatre), 1939-41; assistant
treasurer, Baush Machine Tool Company, Springfield, Massachusetts,
1941-42; U.S. Navy Seabees, South Pacific, July, 1943, to December,
1945; treasurer, Brooks Green Company, Boston, 1946-47; Henry
Thayer Company Cambridge, since 1947 (president, 1947-55,
treasurer); treasurer, General Microfilm Company, Cambridge,
since 1947, The Stamp Show, Inc., New York City, 1953-55; treas-
urer and associate producer Trident Films, Inc., since 1961; pub-
lisher, The Nation Centennial, New York City.

Above are the bare bones of a life which, still being more or less
actively lived, its possessor is really in no mood — or position — to
“sum up.” At the moment we are living in a co-op with a beautiful
view. (My wife and I have between us six children whom I would
much rather write about.) As for myself, | am principally engaged
at the moment in producing feature films in Europe — England,
Spain and Yugoslavia. This is interesting, rewarding and may some
day be profitable. In the meantime it is being enjoyed.

RICHARD FRANKLIN STORY

 

HOME Appress: 2616 79th, N.E., Bellevue, Wash,

OFFICE ADDRESS: Shell Oil Co., 1055 Dexter Horton Bldg., Seattle, Wash.

PREPARED AT: Boothbay Harbor High School, Boothbay Harbor, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: 8.B., cum laude, 1940.

Marriep: Carolyn Hamlin, June 22, 1941. CHILDREN: Richard Franklin, Jr., Aug:
25, 1942 (mm. Diane Knapp, Aug. 27, 1964); Jane Elizabeth, May 1, 1945+
John Hamlin, July 11, 1947; David Bruce, March 12, 1955; Pamela Ano,
Oct. 25, 1956.

occupation: Oil exploration, exploration manager, Northwest Division; ré-

sponsible for exploration activities of Shell Oil Company in Alaska,
Oregon and Washington.

[ 1278 ]

——___

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

UPON completion of one year of geological graduate work, Caro-
lyn and I were married in Gorham, New Hampshire. Shortly after,
we traveled to Martinsville, Virginia, where I obtained work in
the engineering department of an E. I. duPont de Nemours con-
struction project. At the time, I thought I was on my way to becom-
ing a mining engineer or possibly an explosives representanve.
Several engineering assignments with duPont led us to Louisville,
Kentucky, where Dick, Jr., was born. The next transfer, we moved
west to Richland and Hanford, Washington. There on the Man-
hattan Project we just about finished out the war years.

In the spring of 1945, the Hanford Project wound up, as far as
I was concerned. Rather than stay in construction engincering, I
felt that now was the time to get into mining engineering. I made
a tour of several mining towns, and after correspondence with
numerous people and companies, I accepted a position as geologist
with the exploration department of Shell Oil Company in Houston,
Texas. We now had a daughter, Jane. By the time I had found an
apartment where children were acceptable, I had been transferred
to Shreveport, Louisiana. Between Shreveport and Lake Charles,
Louisiana, Carolyn spent a few months back in New Hampshire.
We returned to Louisiana with Dick, Jane, and John, six weeks
old, arriving in the South at the same time as the 1947 hurricane.
Not one of our nicest trips, but not one to forget. We were as-
signed to the new Baton Rouge, Louisiana, office in 1949, back to
Lake Charles in 1950 and then off to Calgary, Alberta, in tgsz.

We had two extremely happy years in Calgary, before moving
on to Edmonton, Alberta, where I was division exploration manayget
of Northern Alberta, British Columbia, and the Northwest Terri-
tories. The following six years were probably the most enjovable
of our travels, and while we were in Edmonton, David and Pain,
our second family, were born.

After eight years in Canada, the next transfer took us to the
east coast for nine months at the head office in New York City,
followed by seven months at B.I.P.M. in The Hague, Netherlands
with a three-week journey to Nigeria. It prov ed not only educa.
tional but extremely interesting. However, judging from the herle
I saw of Europe, and even less of Africa, Tl take the good old
U.S.A. Since our return in early 1961, we have been enjoying our
home in Bellevue, Washington.

I have never been a club joiner, but living in Canada, trips te
Alaska, and residence here in the Northwest have allowed me to en-

[ 1279 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

NORTH Shore Players, Inc. (summer theatre), 1939—41; assistant
treasurer, Baush Machine Tool Company, Springfield, Massachusetts,
1941-42; U.S, Navy Seabees, South Pacific, July, 1943, to December,
1945; treasurer, Brooks Green Company, Boston, 1946-47; Henry
Thayer Company Cambridge, since 1947 (president, 1947-55,
treasurer); treasurer, General Microfilm Company, Cambridge,
since 1947, [he Stamp Show, Inc., New York City, 1953-55; treas-
urer and associate producer Trident Films, Inc., since 1961, pub-
lisher, The Nation Centennial, New York City.

Above are the bare bones of a life which, still being more or less
actively lived, its possessor is really in no mood — or position — to
“sum up.” At the moment we are living in a co-op with a beautiful
view. (My wife and I have between us six children whom I would
much rather write about.) As for myself, I am principally engaged
at the moment in producing feature films in Europe — England,
Spain and Yugoslavia. This is interesting, rewarding and may some
day be profitable, In the meantime it is being enjoyed.

RICHARD FRANKLIN STORY

 

HOME AppRrESS: 2616 7oth, N.E., Bellevue, Wash.

OFFICE appress: Shell Oil Co., 1055 Dexter Horton Bldg., Seattle, Wash.

prepareD at: Boothbay Harbor High School, Boothbay Harbor, Maine.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: $.B., cu laude, 1940.

Margiep: Carolyn Hamlin, June 22, 1941. CHILDREN: Richard Franklin, Jr., Aug.
25, 1942 (mm. Diane Knapp, Aug. 27, 1964); Jane Elizabeth, May 1, 19453
John Hamlin, July 11, 1947; David Bruce, March 12, 1955, Pamela Ann,
Oct. 25, 1956.

occupation: Oil exploration; exploration manager, Northwest Division; re-

sponsible for exploration activities of Shell Oil Company in Alaska,
Oregon and Washington.

[ 1278 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

UPON completion of one year of geological graduate work, Caro-
lyn and I were married in Gorham, New Hampshire. Shortly after,
we traveled to Martinsville, Virginia, where I obtained work in
the engineering department of an E. I. duPont de Nemours con-
struction project. At the time, I thought I was on my way to becom-
ing a mining engineer or possibly an explosives representative.
Several engineering assignments with duPont led us to Louisville,
Kentucky, where Dick, Jr., was born. The next transfer, we moved
west to Richland and Hanford, Washington. There on the Man-
hattan Project we just about finished out the war years.

In the spring of 1945, the Hanford Project wound up, as far as
I was concerned. Rather than stay in construction engineering, I
fele chat now was the time to get into mining engineering. I made
a tour of several mining towns, and after correspondence with
numerous people and companies, I accepted a position as geologist
with the exploration department of Shell Oil Company in Houston,
Texas. We now had a daughter, Jane. By the time I had found an
apartment where children were acceptable, I had been transferred
to Shreveport, Louisiana. Between Shreveport and Lake Charles,
Louisiana, Carolyn spent a few months back in New Hampshire.
We returned to Louisiana with Dick, Jane, and John, six weeks
old, arriving in the South at the same time as the 1947 hurricane.
Not one of our nicest trips, but not one to forget. We were as-
signed to the new Baton Rouge, Louisiana, office in 1949, back to
Lake Charles in 1950 and then off to Calgary, Alberta, in 1952.

We had two extremely happy years in Calgary, before moving
on to Edmonton, Alberta, where I was division exploration manager
of Northern Alberta, British Columbia, and the Northwest Terri-
tories. The following six years were probably the most enjoyable
of our travels, and while we were in Edmonton, David and Pam,
our second family, were born.

After eight years in Canada, the next transfer took us to the
east coast for nine months at the head office in New York City,
followed by seven months at B.I.P.M. in The Hague, Netherlands,
with a three-week journey to Nigeria. It proved not only educa-
tional but extremely interesting. However, judging from the lirtle
I saw of Europe, and even less of Africa, Pll take the good old
U.S.A. Since our return in early 1961, we have been enjoying our
home in Bellevue, Washington.

I have never been a club joiner, but living in Canada, trips to
Alaska, and residence here in the Northwest have allowed me to en-

[ 1279 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

joy my favorite hobbies of hunting and fishing to the utmost. For
the most part, it’s been a great twenty-five years.

ELLIOT GUSTAVE STRAUSS

 

OME abbREss: 691 Humphrey St., Swampscott, Mass.

FFICE ADDRESS: g Nahant St., Lynn, Mass.

2EPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cut laude, 1940, M.D. (Tufts Coll.),
1943.

-aARRieD: Ruth M. Levin, Dec. 27, 1942. CHILDREN: William E., March 22, 1946;
Marshall B., March 12, 1950; Robert J., Aug. 11, 1953.

-CUPATION: Physician, private practice.

"FICES HELD: Associate chief of medicine, Lynn Hospital, since 1958, Union
Hospital, since 1956; member, board of directors and executive committee,
since 1951, president, 1958-6o, Lynn Heart Association; member, board of
directors, since 1956, vice-president, 1962, member, executive committee,
since 1963, Massachusetts Heart Association; past president, Lynn Medical
Society; vice-president, North Shore Civic Music Association, since 1962.

EMBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha Honor Medical Society; Massachusetts Med-
ical Society; Essex South District Medical Society, American, Massachu-
setts and Greater Lynn Heart Associations.

T this time in life, I suppose, one is expected to look back and
nsider what one has accomplished and I find it very surprising
at there is very little to say, and yet so much. For when one was
college there were ambitions and dreams and over the years one
ts the feeling these are not realized. But realistically I think I
n say they have been —not necessarily the dreams now but the
eams then. For when I was a young man I wished to become a
ysician and so I have —not a great physician but a physician —
d as I think about it, this is really all that my limited horizons

[ 1280 |

| |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

entailed. In the process much has happened that I didn’t dream

about, but certainly form a part of one’s life’s goals.

At the tail end of medical school I married a lovely nurse and
together we have made our way in life. During my medical
school days, World War II entered the picture, although. my active
service in it was limited and confined to this country. Shortly after
finishing my residencies, I entered private practice but had to
re-enter the Army during the Korean War, and was stationed in
Korea, an experience of variable impact. Upon return, after two
years’ absence, I resumed practice, more or less from scratch, and
I imagine am successful in an average way. My field is internal
medicine and cardiology and over the years I have been very
actively associated with our local heart association, as well as the
state organization, of which I am at present on the executive com-
mittee. I have been rather active in the function of our hospital's
medical service and am, at present, associate chief of medicine,
plus secretary of the medical staff. This and practice do take a
good slice of time and energy, but I do maintain other activities
and interests— mostly related to music, singing in our Temple
choir, going to symphonies and, whenever possible, to opera which

I seriously follow.

At this particular stage in life I think we who are parents are
increasingly preoccupied with the development and education of
our children, and I have been no exception. We have three sons,
the eldest is eighteen and has just started at Bowdoin College, and
the other two are fourteen and eleven, and are looking ahead to
their futures, as well. I have been blessed with my three sons, and
though I truly had no real thought of them when a young man
graduating from college, they have given me deep pleasure “and a

very full reason for being.

[ 1281 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ROBERT WEIL STRAUSS

 

“FICE appRESS: Joseph, Mellen & Miller, Inc., 1400 East Ohio Bldg., Cleveland,
soaten a Shaker Heights High School, Shaker Heights, Ohio.
SARS IN COLLEGE: 1936~1941. DEGREE: A.B., 1940(41).
araiep: Aileen Kyman, Oct. 3, 1944. CHILDREN: Susan Lee, Sept. 2, 1948,
Robert Weil, Jr, July 23, 1950; Nancy Dale, June 11, 1954.
curation: Security salesman with an investment banking firm.
AMEDIATELY after graduation I entered the Army as an Artil-
ry officer. After three years of service | was wounded at the
nzio Landing in January of 1944. I was then hospitalized for
79 and a half years at Percy Jones General Hospital in Battle
‘eek and was retired in 1946, in the grade of captain.
The next ten years of my life were spent in a family business.
most uneventful period with the exception of the advent of our
ree heir apparents.
In 1958, after vacationing on the west coast of Florida, I was so
chanted by the area, that I decided to buy an interest in a land
ct near Tampa of which I was to be the developer and manager
the program to last two years. Bag and baggage we moved to
-asota which was even better than expected. The two-year pro-
im became four before completion much to our delight. In
asota I was a member of the Ivy League, which had an active
rvard contingent. I was president of the Temple, and active in
: Boy Scouts, C. of C., the Ringling Museum and Opera Guild.
n 1962 we moved back to the old homestead in Shaker and I
1ed the investment firm of Joseph, Mellen & Miller, Inc., where I
now safely ensconced. Three fourths of the firm are Harvardians
ich lends to the enjoyment of my new profession, Most of my

[ 1282 ]

__|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

summer vacations have been spent at a family home in the White
Mountains of New Hampshire.

The children are thriving and so is my waistline. I play a lot of
golf and squash and do some skiing and am generally enjoying life.

FRANK SHERWIN STREETER

 

HOME Appress: 141 E. 72d St., New York, N.Y.
OFFICE apprEss: Whitney Communications Corp., 110 W. sist St, New York,
N.Y.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., cum laude, 1940.

marrieD: Nancy Angell, Feb. 3, 1951. CHILDREN: Ellen Shipman, April 13, 19¢8:
Ruth Cheney, April 13, 1954; Margaret Montgomery, March 7, to$7.

HARVARD BROTHER: Henry Schofield Streeter, ’42, LL.B., ’49.

occuPATIoN: Personal business adviser to John Hay Whitney.

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer, since 1953, trustee and treasurer, since 1957, John Hav
Whitney Foundation; secretary, treasurer and trustee, Greenwood Fund,
since 1958; secretary and treasurer, Greentree Stud, Inc., since 1957, dirce-
tor, Scientific American, Inc., since 1954; treasurer and director, Herald
Tribune Fresh Air Fund, since 1962; trustee, Ailborn Foundation, Greer
School, Mercantile Library, New York Historical Society, all currently,
ensign to lieutenant, U.S. Navy, December, t941, to December, toss,
financial analyst and customer broker, Tucker, Anthony & Company,
1946-52; associated with John Hay Whitney, since September, t9¢1.

MEMBER OF: Century Club, New York; Harvard Club of New York (scere-
tary, 1953-57); Madison Beach Club, Madison, Conn.; Union Club of New
York (governor since 1959); Grand Jury Association, New York County,
Ninth A.D. Republican Club, New York; St. Andrew's Fpiscopal Church,

Madison, Conn.

COMPOSING a Harvard Class Report is a task I fecl would be
much better handled by a novelist, and I would gladly nominace
the late John Marquand or the happily still extant Fdward Streeter

[ 1283 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

(unhappily, no relation) to do the entire job. For better or for
worse, however, tradition demands that each of us do it himself.

The careers described in this Report belong to men who were
born at the end of the first World War, remember but were too
young to be earning a living in the depression, and completed
college just in time for World War II. With this background, the
survivors should be able to handle whatever the complex decades
of the Atomic Age serve up. To the extent we succeed, I believe
a lot of the credit should go to our maturing years at Harvard a
quarter of a century ago.

Hopefully, the maturing process still continues. For me, Harvard
was followed by a year as an airlines trainee before four years in
the Navy. (Commanded an S.C. and P.C. class sub-chaser re-
- spectively and was executive officer of a converted destroyer.)

Next came seven years in Wall Street followed by a move to mid-
town New York to help “Jock” Whitney with his personal invest-
ments, philanthropies, and related affairs. It has been and continues
to be a full and stimulating life.

In early 1951 the former Nancy Angell, Wellesley ’50, and I
were married, and the years since seem to have gone by even
quicker than those before. Many classmates are ahead of us in
bringing on another generation, but with our three daughters we
are now well embarked on the venture and find it a most reward-
ing one. .

At the end of the war, it seemed to me that nearly a lifetime had
been packed into those four years. The influence is still there but
the impact has certainly faded. I returned to civilian life with
no particular desire either to work for a large corporation or to
embark on graduate studies and when a job opening appeared in
finance the opportunity looked attractive. What started as an experi-
ment laid the foundations for my subsequent business life.

In 1952 a Harvard contact led me into the orbit of a great Yale
man. My original position with Mr. Whitney, primarily that of
investment adviser, has subsequently evolved into one with mana-
gerial and supervisory responsibilities. High in my assessment of
these is the work I do in the area of his many philanthropic interests.

New York, besides being the center of my business life, is also
the center of my family life, and neither my wife nor I would
want it otherwise in these years, The city is an immensely stimu-
lating place, and when its frustrations threaten to get the upper
hand we have a small year-round place on the Sound in Madison,

[ 1284 ]

—$__

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Connecticut, which we love. Here two hours away we can enjoy
the pleasures of open country as well as the sense of being back
in New England where we both originated.

My major outside activities seem in good part an extension of my
job, working with various organizations, chairman of one club's
House Committee, member of another’s Wine Committee, raising
money for worthy causes, serving on the Grand Jury, and so on.
It is fun, and while it leaves little time for TV, time is made for
plenty of reading, for inexpert tennis in the summer and occasional
inexpert skiing in the winter. We have managed two trips to
Europe without the children and hope to take them with us on a
third after the Reunion next year.

Some of us may recall that at our Harvard Commencement in
those dark days for the West of June, 1940, a few members of the
then Twenry-fifth Reunion Class of 1915 had lost faith in the
ability of our college generation to meet the challenge of the times.
Whenever the temptation to lose faith in humanity assails me, I
think back on that episode and take heart. It seems a good thing to

remember as we too come back to Harvard after twenty-five vears
out.

PHILIP LIVINGSTON STRONG

|
i
4
i

 

SA

HOME ADDRESS: 93 N. Main St., Cranbury, N.J.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Strong & Strong, 390 George St., New Brunswick, N_J.

PREPARED AT: Rutgers Preparatory School, New Brunswick, N.]J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B. 1940; LL.B. (Columbia Univ), tgs.

marrigD: Sally Ann Borthwick, May 26, 1951. CHtLpREN: Harry Borthuswh,
Aug. 22, 1952; Edward Woodbridge, March 19, 1954; Thomas Livingston,
June 25, 1957; Glen Van Rensselaer, April 2, 1962.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Theodore Strong, Jr., ’22; Stephen Van Renssclace Serony,

[ 1285 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940
"27; Woodbridge Strong, ’32; John Van Rensselaer Strong, 34; Robert Liv-
ingston Strong, °36.
occupation: Attorney; partner of Strong & Strong.

oFFICES HELD: Attorney for Borough of Jamesburg, N.J., 1954, 1955; Assistant
US. Attorney for District of New Jersey, 1957; member, New Jersey
Republican State Committee for Middlesex County, N.J., since 1962; sec-
retary, Chemtree Corporation, since 1961; assistant solicitor for Pennsyl-

vania Railroad, since 1958; counsel to Madison Township (Middlesex
County), N.J., Sewerage Authority, since 1964.

MEMBER OF: New Jersey State Bar Association; St. Nicholas Society, New York

City; Rotary Club, New Brunswick, N.J.; Harvard Club of New York;
Society of Colonial Lords of Manors.

I WRITE these few words not long after what, annually, is the
very worst part of the year for me. That is the month of October
and the first few days of November. In other words, the time of
general elections and the several weeks immediately before them. I
am always under extra strain and tension at the time of the year
stated, whether or not we Republicans have Barry Goldwater on
our ticket. .

Although I have achieved most of the goals that I had set for
myself in life, there still are a few left. I have been very happily
married for over thirteen years, have a good income, a nice home in
suburban — almost rural—surroundings, and four young sons in
whom I take great pride.

The continuance of the above-described state of affairs seems
assured, barring acts of international war and other like disasters.
I, therefore, will direct my efforts toward assuring top-notch and
extensive education for my four boys, and toward returning my
native Middlesex County, New Jersey, to its long-abandoned ad-
herence to the Republican Party. This last constitutes a fascinating
and tremendous challenge. I should add that, in facing the challenge,
I have gone as far and as high in attaining Republican political
office as I ever will want to go. Always, the practice of law and a
steady income from it must come ahead of the political struggle.

Traveling I do little of. Back and forth between Cranbury, New
Jersey, and New York City is ordinarily plenty. Vacations usually
find all of our family, except any child who is in summer camp, at
Cooperstown, New York, beside Otsego Lake.

My war record was undistinguished. I was in the Army Air
Forces as a lieutenant and just missed going out of the country
to Okinawa. I am a member of the Presbyterian Church in Cran-
bury and, by conviction, I am a liberal or moderate Republican.

[ 1286 ]

a

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

A reader could conclude that politics and my family are my two
main hobbies. I also find a fascination in participating, as an attorney,
in the preparation of large public construction projects as Madison
Township, New Jersey, recently a rural community of six thousand
people and now having about thirty thousand grows apace. I
have been at this for almost one year and I expect to continue it
for at least four years more. I have never before practised this
phase of law extensively; I must be like a child with a new toy.

Here’s looking forward, also, to Reunion number twenty-five!

ROWLAND GIBSON HAZARD STURGES

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: 36 Larchwood Drive, Cambridge 38, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939, 1940-1942. DEGREE: S.B., 1940(42).

MarRieED: Hedvig von Mayrhauser, Aug. 3, 1943. CHILDREN: Alice Knight, May
8, 1945; Howard, Dec. 20, 1946; Jeffrey Hazard, Sept. 12, 1961.

OCCUPATION: Musician—-teacher; teacher of piano, Longy School of Music,
choral director, Buckingham School, Cambridge, and Concord Academy.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of trustees and chairman, Faculty Advisory Con
mittee, South End Music Centre.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Musical Association.

SINCE 1950, when we first moved to Cambridge, my life has
centered around the piano (concertizing and teaching) and choral
music. I joined the piano faculty of the Longy School of Music in
1950, and in the same year became conductor of the Buckingham
Glee Club. Since that time I have also become choral director at
Concord Academy.

I have been active in both piano concertizing and in chamber
music, appeared with orchestras, including the Boston Civic Sym-

[ 1287 ]

1 —

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

phony, and, in 1952 and 1954, gave two piano recitals in Jordan
Hall in Boston.

Being choral director at Buckingham and at Concord Academy
has offered me a unique opportunity to participate in the tremen-
dous growth in standards of achievement and in levels of musical
taste that have been taking place in the secondary schools within
the last two decades. I find working with teen-agers emotionally
demanding but tremendously exciting: the challenge of performing
is one that they rise to with a spontaneity not equalled by their
elders.

From 1952 to 1955, | was musician in residence at the Breadloaf
Writers Conference at Middlebury College, where I gave a series
of concerts and lectures. It was a wonderful experience, being able
to play for and talk with people engaged in the field of creative
writing. I gained considerable insight into audience reactions to
contemporary music; I was amazed to find so many people with a
highly developed taste for Stravinsky and Hindemith.

While my daily life consists of a great deal of teaching, I still
manage to keep up with the various activities of my family, the
youngest of whom, a three-year-old boy named Jeffrey, really
keeps us on our toes, Alice, our eldest, is a sophomore at Sarah
Lawrence, and Howard, our seventeen-year-old son, is a senior at
Browne and Nichols. Hedy, my wife, finds time to juggle most
successfully the demands of an active family with being assistant
treasurer of the Window Shop, a non-profit organization devoted
to helping new Americans get settled in this country. All in all, my
twenty-fifth reunion finds us all more active than ever.

[ 1288 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

GEORGE ALEXANDER SULLIVAN

 

MAILING AbpREss: 124 Antrim St., Cambridge 39, Mass.

ALLEN EDMUND SUSMAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 14242 Valley Vista Blvd., Sherman Oaks, Calif.

OFFICE ADpREsS: Rosenfeld, Meyer & Susman, g601 Wilshire Blvd. Beverly
Hills, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Chelsea High School, Chelsea, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LL.B. 1943 (46).

MarriED: Dorothea Breitweiser, July 22, 1944. CHILDREN: Kenneth Roger, Jan.

2, 1948; Laura Sue, May 8, 1949; Teresa Elinor, Sept. 20, 1952; Proswilla
Ann, Feb. 27, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; member of firm, Rosenfeld, Meyer & Susman.

OFFICES HELD: Director of a number of corporations; captain, US, Air Force.
1942-46.

MEMBER OF: Professional and social organizations.

AT times like this, I envy those who can make words come alive.
When I retrace the past twenty-five years, the events that have

[ 1289 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

occurred, meaningful as they were at the time, hardly seem worth
recording for posterity. A lawyer’s life is traditionally supposed
to be devoid of occurrences of great interest, except perhaps to
other lawyers, but there may be enough lawyers in our class to
justify this call to duty,

To begin with the early post-1940 period, I suppose we all tend
to remember the excitement and the uncertainties of the war years
and gloss over their rougher aspects. About the last type of activity

I would have foreseen for myself was flying about the South Pacific
in night fighter aircraft, but the wheel revolved and there I was.
After that four-year hiatus, it was back to Cambridge to finish law
school and then off to California. Why California? I suppose be-
cause it represented growth, progress and a challenge. It was a
decision I’ve never regretted.

The first eleven years in California were spent as a lawyer in a
large institutional-type of law firm in Los Angeles. In 1957 I felt
the need for greater independence and I resigned my partnership
in that firm to organize a new law firm specializing in the entertain-
ment industry. The gamble of rather complete security for the
lure of the unknown turned out well. Our firm has grown to be
one of the leading organizations of its kind anywhere.

I'm happy with the result but P’'m sorry it took so much of the
past seven years to make it happen. The work I do leaves too little
time for outside interests but there have been occasional oppor-
tunities for a quick jaunt to Europe or Tahiti, fishing in Canada and
Mexico, and a round of golf or working in political, charitable and
civic areas every now and then. Despite the tensions of my kind of
law practice, I’ve derived a certain amount of satisfaction from the
thought that I’ve helped to create a meaningful organization which
still ought to be around when I’m not.

IT had thought that at this point in life we begin to assume a
philosophical attitude about the foibles of people and societies, but
I find it hard to come by. I still deplore injustice when I see it and
I still am uncomfortable with people who have forgotten how to
laugh, or who feel that change of any kind from the status quo is
to be completely avoided. I like to think that one of the things the
past twenty-five years have brought about is a better ability to
dispense with the inconsequential and to value the important.

In keeping with that thought, I believe that my proudest achieve-
ment has been having four wonderful beautiful and talented chil-

[ 1290 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

dren who give every indication of having a great decal more than
their father to report for their twenty-fifth reunion,

CHARLES GARDNER SWAIN

 

HOME AppreEss: 32 Norfolk Rd., Arlington, Mass. 02174.

OFFICE apprEss: Dept. of Chemistry, Massachusects Inst. of Technology, Car
bridge, Mass. 02139.

PREPARED AT: Thayer Academy, Braintree, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. Stevrma curt Laude, top aM teat,
PH.D. 1944.

MarriED: Marguerite L. Stay, Aug. 18, 1945. CHILoREN: Roger By eb. t. toes.
Cynthia, May 25, 1952.

occuPATION: Professor of chemistry.

THE war years were spent in the Harvard Laboratories workory
on the chemistry of mustard war gases. In 1946 I marred Maryse.
rite L. Stay (Vassar ’43). We both did research with De. Paul
Bartlett, and received Ph.D. degrees in orgame chemistry frees
Harvard. After an enjoyable and productive vear at Cal Tech dhresy
1945-46, as a National Research Fellow w ith Dr. Linus Pau! bent, |
came to M.I.T., initially as an A.C.S. Fellow with Dr. Arthur Cape
I have been a Guggenheim Fellow at University College, London,
and at Oxford, been elected to the American Academy of Arts and
Sciences, and received the American Chemical Seascty Award ont
petroleum chemistry in 1957. My present position ts profecor ef
chemistry at M.I.T.

My obsession in chemistry is unravelling the mechannin (vecpicnee
of steps, nature of intermediates, structure of the activated qoen
plex) in common organic reactions, developing new methents foe
studying mechanisms, and quantitatively corrclating rates with the

[ 1291 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

structures of reactants. These activities utilize isotopes (heavy
elements) both as tracers and for kinetic isotope effects. My major
contribution to science has been working with forty-five enthusi-
astic graduate students (now all Ph.D.’s) in these endeavors. We
have published eighty joint research papers and appear to be making
progress understanding this field at an increasing rate. More than
one-third of the forty-five are now teaching and actively publish-
ing the findings of their own research groups. Several of them in
industry have impressive publication records.

We have two children, Roger, fifteen, and Cynthia, twelve, both
doing honor work in school (Belmont Hill and Buckingham). My
miscellaneous interests include electronics (design of new systems
for precision measurement of temperature or resistance), ordinary
mountain climbing (first person up Matterhorn in 1961), and wild
flora (study of evolution and synthesis of hybrids in Pteridophyta).

HUGH BURY SWAINBANK

fee

    

HOME ADpREsS: Washington Road, Woodbury, Conn,

OFFICE appress: Oakville Co., Div. of Scovill Manufacturing Co., Oakville,
Conn.

prepared aT: Ware High School, Ware, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

Marrigp: [rene Dwyer, June 20, 1947. CHILDREN: Donald, June 19, 1938; Cynthia
B,, Oct. 2, 1948; Hugh Bury, Jr. Jan. 23, 1951; Christopher Allen, Feb. 5,
1057+

HARVARD BROTHER: John Allen Swainbank, Lt.., ’4o.

OCCUPATION: Engineer.

[1292 ]

—___]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM NYE SWIFT

 

HOME apprEss: Trapelo Road, R.F.D, 1, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE appress: Hutchins & Wheeler, 294 Washington St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Choate School, Wallingford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LL.B., 1948.

MARRIED: Phyllis Childs, Feb. 22, 1941. CHILDREN: Shelley Hathaway, Aug. 2q
1943 (mt, Arthur E. Norton, ’64, June 27, 1964); Gay Ranlet, Jan. 22, 1944

OCCUPATION: Attorney; partner, Hutchins & Wheeler.

OFFICES HELD: Trustee, Isabel F. Hyams Fund, Inc. Sarah A. Elyams Fur,
Inc., since 1959; chairman, Lincoln Board of Appeals, since 1440; trustee,
Children’s Hospital Medical Center, since 1958, East Boston Secul Cen-
ters, Inc., since 1956, Lincoln Land Conservation Trust, since 195% De-
Cordova Museum and Park, 1956-62; captain emeritus, Choate School and
Lowell House Movie Teams.

MEMBER OF: Massachusetts and Boston Bar Associations; Badminton and

Tennis Club.
‘““My father and mother were honest, though poor —”
“Skip all that!” cried the Bellman in haste.
“If it once becomes dark, there’s no chance of a Snark —

We have hardly a minute to waste!”
The Hunting of the Snark, Lewis Carroll.

The war, the law, two kids, one wife,
These words describe my graduate life.

My hair is thin; my glasses thick;

I don’t get rich nor slow nor quick.

In things political 'm highly critical

Of being tied to the state of my umbilical.
In things athletic I’m apologetic

For double faults and my downhill hectic.
But all in all I’m having a ball
Birdwatching, girlwatching, practising law.

[ 1293 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

+ WALTER RALPH SYKORA

   

ft iia

aw: May 27, 1918, Pittsburgh, Pa, parents: Ralph Frank Sykora, Marie
Melichar.

PARED AT: Shady Side Academy, Pittsburgh, Pa.

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

>: Feb. 13, 1938, Pittsburgh, Pa.

ALTER RALPH SYKORA spent one year with our Class. He

s survived by his father.

JOSEPH BROWN THOMAS, IV

Birman cease men paste tact nen

   

: ADDRESS: Box 173, Mount Desert, Maine.
= ADDRESS: Box 932, Aspen, Colo,
RED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass,

IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: $.B., 1940; B.ARCH., 1964,
ep: Marina Margarita Simeonovna Karaureva, 1942 (divorced 1955); Etcl
fansen, August, 1955. CHILDREN: Joseph Brown, sth, Sept. 25, 19433 Sim-
on James Fargo, March 13, 1945; Tamsin Marina, Dec, 10, 1946.

[ 1294

| |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Architect.
MEMBER OF: Seal Harbor Club, Maine; Aspen Ski Club,

TWENTY-FIVE years crammed into two pages. Muse, dance,
skiing, and flying pulled me in different directions but the war
forced decision. The Civil Pilot Training Program supphed the
means to fly, and soon after I was teaching R.A.F. cadets ty tly
in the Everglades of Florida. The Navy, first unimprosed with
C.P.T.P. pilots, shortly came across with a commision, | was
welcomed aboard in Miami and proceeded with my whole crew ty
Corpus Christi, Texas, with Marina, my bride of a few months,
Bacchus, the police dog; and Scrappy, the cat. Then follaned two
years in the primary training command, half of it upside down in
a “Yellow Peril.” J.B.T., 5th, born in Pasco, Washington, broke the
hospital record for size, my only claim to distinction dunag my
years in the Navy. Then the ferry command led me bach ars
forth across the country and gave me sight from above, detached
and dreamlike, of western desert mountains deeply shadowed by the
setting sun, green islands set in a grey sea under the drizaly shy of
the Northwest. At war’s end I dropped suddenly to cath once
more searching for what to do. First a flying school which ended
shortly when my one and only student returned from a landhng nn
the trees in a dead-end canyon stricken with poison oak and blisters
from a long walk. The insurance paid off the bank and [ was free
to start again.

Next project was to build a house. No contractors were as sil.
able, but how could I go wrong after engineering sciences at Efe.
vard? The house stood up. After a brief bout in the ales fell
selling everything from face cream to rat popon to TW seta |
returned to building; houses, cabinetry, furniture, drafting tables
and into the design of all these.

In the meantime, J.B.T., 5th (also a “Tommy”), Sunces. ad
Tamsin were chasing each other around Santa Mona Canyon
with their bow and arrow (rubber tipped), surfing at the beach,
learning to make tortillas at Canyon School, and te pte frear a
former German Olympic rider now a Malibu Beach nature bees

Then came a break with what was before, and Pimesed fe Viper,
Colorado, with my second wife, Ftel. We spent much tine trove!
ing and filming in Furope; the winter in Austria, then with the
children to Chile to ski in the summer and hopefully teach pec
Spanish. The fall of 1956 we returned to Purepe te thy wath Phe

[ 1295 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

mann Geiger (Swiss Rescue Pilot) who taught me his high moun-
tain ski plane technique. For three winters we flew over much of
the western United States, landing on many of the high snowfields
of the Rockies and Sierras in our Cessna 180. In the spring of
1959 I went to the World Aviation Conference in Moscow as
photographer observer at the conference and third pilot on one of
the few private planes to fly into Russia.

Summers we began spending in Mt. Desert Island, Maine, where
the children learned to sail, play tennis, and to work in the woods.
In Aspen at school they learned to ski and one of them to race.
Skiing continues to be very important to the whole family. I helped
to make a movie for Walt Disney, “Fantasy on Skis,” doing much
of the ski photography as well as acting.

Fitted in between these various activities, I found time to design
and build us a house in Mt. Desert and then another one in Aspen.
Then followed others for sale and to order. The success of these
houses gave me a thirst for more architectural knowledge. I applied
to the Graduate School of Design at Harvard and to my surprise
(and dismay) was accepted on a “We'll-try-for-a-year basis.” 1940
plus twenty 1 was back in Harvard again and stayed for another
four years to work harder than I ever had as an undergraduate.

Presently, | am involved with the design of the new Flagstaff all-
year resort in Maine where there will be skiing in winter, sailing,
golf, tennis, and riding as well as music festivals and other cultural
activities in summer.

I only hope that my children will not be starting on a new career
on the eve of their Twenty-fifth Reunion.

[ 1296 ]

—__|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM HENRY BALDWIN THOMAS

 

LAST KNOWN ApprEss: The Woodmere, 5425 Connecticut Ave, N.W, Woah.
ington, D.C. (Lost.)

+k DE VERE OLIVER THOMPSON

 

BoRN: Oct. 5,°1915, Des Moines, lowa. parents: Oliver Perkin Theories, ‘os,
Arabella Macomber.

PREPARED AT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 19.40.
piep: April 18, 1944, Fort Benning, Ga.

AFTER graduation Thompson enlisted in the lowa Nanonal Caused
(168th Infantry) as a private and was commisioned second heuten:
ant in February, 1941. He trained in Louisiana and Crceryia asnd
was sent to North Ireland in March, 1942, and promoted te bew-
tenant. He participated in several raidy was captured by the
Germans in December, 1942, and was a prisoner of war mv Eraly
until his escape in September, 1943. Hle returned heane for ben:

[ 1297]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

pitalization and in February, 1944, went to Fort Benning, Georgia,
as an instructor in the Weapons Section of the Infantry School.
He died from a gunshot wound. He was survived by his parents.

HAL CANDLER THOMPSON

 

HOME AppREss: 30 Chestnut Drive, Hastings-on-Hudson, N.Y.

OFFICE Appress: Batten, Barton, Durstine & Osborn, 385 Madison Ave., New
York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: LaGrange High School, LaGrange, Ga.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; a.M. (Columbia Univ.), 1948.

Marrigo: Betty Ellen Weber, Sept. 14, 1946. cHILDREN: Erica Elaine, April 9,
1950; Keith Barnwell, Oct. 25, 1955.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Donald Thompson, A.M., ’33, PH.D., 36.
occupation: Advertising; senior television producer,
OFFICES HELD: President, Riverview Manor Association, Hastings-on-Hudson,

1959-60; chairman, board of deacons, South Presbyterian Church, Dobbs
Ferry, 1961-62.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York.

[ 1298 ]

——__]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PETER SCHUYLER THOMPSON

reo cote
* CT ae

    

HOME AppRESS: Dorsey Farm, Easton, Md.

PREPARED AT: Groton School, Groton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Rebecca C. Ames, May 17, 1941. CHILDREN: Peter Schuyler, Jr. Jan.
30, 1943; Nancy Ames, Sept. 2, 1944; Rebecca Caroline, Jan. 2t, toss.
John C. G., Dec. 23, 1950.

OCCUPATION: Investment banker.

RETIRED from farming in 1954! Joined Stcin Bros. & Boyee of
Baltimore, 1955, and opened a branch office in Faston for this
brokerage firm. Partner, 1956. Became affiliated with W. PE. Hutton
& Company of New York, still with an office in Faston, in’ 194}.
Most happy living in the country and being no farther but yet ne
closer than a direct telephone wire to New York City. I wrote in
1950, “We are very happy with everything but Truman and
Russia.” Now every day Russia looks worse and Truman better.

[ 1299 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

TERRY DUNSTAN THOMPSON

 

pprEss: Cley, Holt, Norfolk, England.

‘D aT: Canterbury School, New Milford, Conn,
NW COLLEGE: 1936-1939.

10N: Poet.

rions: Poems; Lament For The Sleepwalker, The Phoenix In The
ert; The Dove With The Bough Of Olive.

[a memento mori this is to have to look back over twenty-
irs! I was twenty when I left Harvard. And now .
; better not to work that sum out.

things have happened and I am not now exactly the same
was then. They say that every cell in the body is changed
ven years. Have three and a half different people called
>s by my name? I think not. The mysterious identity
It is all, the good and the bad, mine. So here 1s a partial
. was for me, as I suppose it must have been for all of
it Divide, though I am not sure that I realized the depth
idth at the time. I began in Texas; I ended in France. In
n-between while, I was successively in the Services of
= Infantry, and the Air Force, Perhaps the note stamped
le ink in my Service Record: “This Soldier Is NOT
ded For The Soldier’s Good Conduct Medal” partly
’ military wanderings. Still, I achieved the grade of
the Air Force, the most generous and friendly of the
hes of the Army, and at the Separation Center, where
rot at all for the opinions of past adjutants, I was flung
onduct Medal anyway. The nation was munificent and

[ 1300 ]

—____|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

I must not be ungrateful. It is the only medal I have ever had,
except one for Christian Doctrine when I was seven.

And afterwards? Well, I traveled in Egypt and the Holy Land
and Syria, and later in Italy and France. For some time now |
have been living in England quietly, remotely, peacefully. Among
other things, this country has the advantage of the most beaunful
landscape in the world, and where I live I can walk along a straight
Roman road beside great fields that lead down to the sea. It ts an
appropriate place, I think, for a poet, and I am happy to be here.

This does not mean that I have forgotten America. Indeed. I
have not. And it sometimes seems to me that my love for our
country increases the longer I am away. But it does mean that
I doubt my competence to pronounce on some of the great ques-
tions, political and social, which are so agitating at the moment. J
trust that all will work well for us and for the world. In view of
the resources of ability and goodness among 200 million people, I
think that such a trust is only reasonable.

One of the best things that befell me at Harvard was English A-1
with Robert Davis, who was the finest teacher ] have ever known
and for whose red ink expended on my themes I am still more
grateful than I can say. I am amazed that he has been allowed to
remain as professor of English at Columbia and has not been per-
suaded to become professor of English at Harvard so that another
generation can benefit from his gifts. And I should mention, ton,
another great teacher: Robert Hillyer, whose death I mourn, for
he was a charming man and a real poet. The teaching of Robert
Davis and of Robert Hillyer would alone have been sufficient to
make Harvard always memorable to me.

I was blessed with a talent that led me in only one direction, and
so I have been spared the uncertainty which others may have had
in determining what they were meant to do in life. I love poctry.
For me, the writing of it, however arduous that may be at times
is a delight. I imagine that mathematicians when they work ther
problems and musicians when they complete their harmonies must
have the same feeling. With prose it is otherwise, and though |
am pleased when I can get it to come right, the satfaction a of
a lesser order.

This makes me wonder why so few Elarvard men read poctry.
The same, of course, is true of men from other universes. But

then Harvard, we like to think, has something which they lek, and
we may not be wrong, as so many men insist on telling you why

[1301 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

they did not go to Harvard, whereas no Harvard man, surely, has
ever explained to anyone why he did not go somewhere else. Yet
our university does not appear to have lodged an enjoyment of
poetry in the hearts of many of us. This seems to me a pity, and
so [ hope no one will mind if I suggest that perhaps just one
hour a year might be spent in a bookshop choosing one recent book
of poems. I am not saying this simply to benefit myself, or simply
to benefit my fellow poets, but to benefit all of us. Carthage did
not have time for poetry; Rome did. The one nation is practically
forgotten; the other, in endless ways, still lives.

The most important thing which has happened to me since leav-
ing Harvard has been the rediscovery of the Catholic faith in which
I was brought up. This came about, by God's grace, mostly through
reading, especially the reading of history, and in particular the
history of the ancient world. 1 could not begin to describe the
peace and happiness which the practice of Catholicism has given
me. I think that, as a Catholic, I should express my gratitude to the
president of Harvard and to the dean of the Divinity School for
establishing a Chair of Catholic Studies, which was a generous and
thoughtful act. It seems to me that it is long past the tume when
the Catholics who were at Harvard should have done something
positive to establish a Catholic chapel and chaplaincy at Harvard
similar to the one at Yale. I hope that it will be done soon, and I
hope that every effort will be made to persuade the Cardinal Arch-
bishop of Boston to appoint a priest who was an undergraduate at
Harvard and who knows, loves, and understands the University.

Looking back once more, 1 am tremendously grateful to Harvard
for all manner of things, most of all for so many friends made there.
It is a great university, one of the greatest in the world, and I pray
that it becomes even greater. As I doubt if I shall get to the Twenty-
fifth Reunion, this is the occasion for me to send all best regards

to my friends in our Class, especially to those from Strauss Hall
Lowell House, The Monthly, and the Signet,

[ 1302 ]

a |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

+ OLIVER THORNDIKE,

 

BORN: Sept. 12, 1917, Beverly Farms, Mass, PARENTS: Nathaniel Seone Semp-
kins, Jr., 09, Olivia Thorndike.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREE: M.F.A. (Yale Univ.), 1939.

piep: April 14, 1954, St. Thomas, Virgin Islands.

STAGE, screen and television actor, Thorndike made his Broadw av
debut in “Charley’s Aunt.” After a few years in the theatre and an
summer stock, he went to Hollywood and appeared in many pw-
tures. He returned to New York to appear in tclevision and in tg¢e
started a weekly television show based on “Stage Door.” Tle was
survived by his mother and a brother.

WALTER NORMAN THUNE.

 

HOME ApprEss: 51 Marion Rd,, Westport, Conn,
OFFICE apprEss: Kenyon & Eckhardt, [nc., 200 Park Ave, New Vork NY
PREPARED AT: E:nglish Fligh School, Lynn, Mass.

[ 1303 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.
marrieD: Lillian Louise Rafter, Nov. 25, 1954. CHILDREN: Richard Mason
24, 1947; Pamela Louise, April 18, 1955; Diana Elizabeth, Jan. 20

we . . ly 1
occupation: Merchandising and marketing executive, Kenyon & Eckharw.
Inc., advertising agency. ,

3 Aug,

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Premium Merchandising Club of New York
1953-55, Marketing Executives Club of New York, 1955-57; member, Aq.
visory Board, National Premium Sales Executives, 1954-55.

meMBER OF: Harvard Club of Fairfield County, Premium Advertising Asso-

ciation of America; Direct Mail Advertising Association, Marketing Exec-
utives Club of New York.

pustications: Articles on contests, premiums, sales promotion, trading stamps
and merchandising subjects in New York World Telegram, Food Bus-
iness, Premium Practice, Premium Merchandising, Premium Buyers
Guide, Sponsor, Advertising Agency, Sales Promotion Handbook, etc.
A NEW ENGLANDER returns to New England. It started in
Lynn, Massachusetts, then the scene changed to Glen Cove, Long
Island — my home for thirteen years. And now, as of one and a
half years ago, I am in the lively town of Westport, Connecticut.
My house, a typical new colonial. The land is distinguished by a
pond where fifteen to twenty wild mallard ducks have taken up
residence at my expense. |

I commute daily to New York City to Kenyon & Eckhardt Ad-
vertising in the Pan Am Building where I try to assist our clients
in the marketing and merchandising sales promotion areas.

As an economist by choice, I am a promoter at heart and I have
been very active in premium promotions, consumer contests and
swecpstakes, Couponing, sampling, etc,

Prior to K & E, I was in the same area at Advertising Distributors
of America, where I was director of marketing services. Before that
] was with Cunningham & Walsh Advertising for thirteen years in
the promotion area. I started though, after college, on the client
side, first Lever Brothers Company and then Standard Brands.

1 was fortunate to win the “Best Promotion of the Year” award
two years in a row — first in 1959 for the Texaco tank truck used
by Texaco, and in 1960 for a so’ steel tape promotion used by
Johns Manville Corporation.

My life since graduation has been highlighted as follows:

1) I have a charming wife and three nice children,

2) One of the children Is a seventeen-year-old teen-ager just
applying for college, whose antics are unbelievable (but described
to me as normal), He has managed to capture the Spo

rts car to
[ 1304 |

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

commute to high school by dropping me off and picking me up at
the railroad station in “his” car.

3) I have fought crabgrass and weeds for many years as a true
resident of the suburbs.

4) Survival of the Madison Avenue challenge.

5) Lastly, by never admitting my age and by indulging in young
people’s activities; also commenting on how old some classmates

appear.

DONALD MacDONALD DICKINSON THURBER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 794 Neff Rd., Grosse Pointe, Mich, 48230.

OFFICE appress: Public Relations Counselors, Inc., 310 Penobscot Bldg., Detrort,
Mich, 48226,

PREPARED AT: Detroit University School, Grosse Pointe, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B., magna cum laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Margaret Worcester Dudley, June 6, 1964.

occupation: Public relations counsel; president, Public Relations Counsclern,
Inc.

OFFICES HELD: House manager, The Cape Playhouse, Dennis, Mass, summer,
1940; executive secretary, Youth Division, Democratic National Com-
mittee, during Presidential campaign of 1940; membership seeretary, Uhar-
vard Club of New York, fall, 1940; project supervisor, Detroit Council for
Youth Service, 1941-43; member, board of directors, War Chese of
Metropolitan Detroit, 1942-46; vice-president, Harvard Club of bastern
Michigan, 1942-46; Michigan representative, 1943-46, secretary and ad:
ministrator, Wayne County (Michigan) Chapter, 1y4g6-s0, Naneonal
Foundation for Infantile Paralysis, Inc.; executive director, Governors
(Michigan) Study Commission on the Deviated Criminal Sex Orfenster.
1950-51; executive secretary, Mayor's (Detroit) Committce for the Re.
habiliration of Narcotic Addicts, 1951-53; executive assistant, US, Sensece
Blair Moody, of Michigan, 1952; secretary and assistant treasurer, mi}
54, president, 1954-58, Michigan Rotary Press, Inc., executive vice pros

[ 1305 ]

Oe LL

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

dent, 1938-61, president, since 1961, Public Relations Counselors, Inc.;
planning director, Diocese of Michigan (Episcopal), 1958-62; consultant,
Secretary of the Interior, since 1962, member, 1954-58, vice-chairman,
1956-58, Michigan Crippled Children Commission; Regent, University of
Michigan, 1958-63; member, State Board of Education (Michigan), since
1965; member, National Park Trust Fund Board, since 1963; director,
Huron Valley Steel Corporation (Belleville, Mich.), since 1963, member,
Harvard Board of Overseers’ Committee to Visit Harvard College, since
1964; Vice-president, currently and for several years past, Detroit Grand
Opera Association, Inc., president, Family Service of Metropolitan De-
troit, since 1963, member, board of directors, vice-president for several
years in the past, currently chairman, Scholarship Fund, Detroit Urban
League, member, board of directors, Michigan Society for Mental
Health, Inc., currently and for several years past; member, Metropolitan
Detroit Young Men's Christian Association Counselling Service, currently
and for several years past, member, Advisory Committee, Music Settle-
ment School (Detroit), since 1962; member, Music Committee, Detroit
Institute of Arts, currently and for several years past; trustee, Etruscan

Foundation (Detroit), currently and for several years past; member,

Executive Council, Diocese of Michigan, since 1963; vestryman, Christ

Church, Detroit, currently and on rotating basis for many years; assistant

secretary, secretary, vice-president and acting president, Grosse Pointe

War Memorial Association, 1952-55; member, board of trustees, Episcopal

Student Foundation, University of Michigan, 1957-58; vice-president,

Service Associates, Inc., Washington, D.C., since 1961; trustee, Ossabaw
Island Project, Savannah, Ga., since 1963.

MEMBER OF: Michigan and Detroit Historical Societies, University Club of

Detroit; Social Workers’ Club of Detroit; Prismatic Club (Detroit);
Harvard Clubs of Eastern Michigan and New York.

“The only thing necessary for the triumph of evil is that
good men do nothing.” — Edmund Burke

“And this was in the night, Most glorious night
Thou wert not meant for slumber. Oh, let me be
A sharer in thy fierce and far delight,

A portion of the tempest and of thee.” — Lord Byron

IN the great twentieth-century adventure which has sent the winds
of change blowing through the lives of all of us, my path has con-
sistently led into organizational activities and commitments. My
life in the last quarter-century has been largely one of innovating,
organizing, doing — contending with the times, one might say —
as motivator and mover of individuals and groups. Some of them
pay and are known as clients; most cannot pay and | work for other

satisfactions. Life is a unity—one part makes another possible.
There are no water-tight compartments.

[ 1306 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT
The difficult civic task (developing enlightened meavures for the
handling of criminal sex offenders and drug addicts), the hard
political assignment (raising the money for a U.S. Senater’s can-
paign, heading the first hundred-dollar- -per- plate dinner in the state),
the unprecedented innovation (reorganizing the structure and opera.
tions of the Episcopal Diocese of Michigan); the demands of cris

(serving as a regent of the University of Michigan during vcars of

financial stringency, mounting enrollments, and many unice needs),

the delicate mission (helping to interpret to cach other the late

John F. Kennedy and Governor G. Mennen Williams, shortly before

the 1960 Democratic Convention, when the support of the larrer

was vital to the nomination of the former); my own camparyns for
public office (defeat by 3,400 votes out of nearly 2.n60,000 cast in

1963 for regent, victory by 600,000 out of more than 3.0ncew Cast

in 1964 for the State Board of Education) — those are typical of ehe

efforts into which J have been repeatedly drawn.

Such work is never finished, of course. No one on earth ever seen

“thine alabaster cities gleam, undimmed by human tears.” Bue in

the best of times and in the worst of times one does what one can.

The ] journey of the last twenty-five | years has been enriched with
opportunities for foreign travel, enlivened by association with some
of the great personalities of our time, and blest by oval frend,
including many classmates with whom the tics remain as strens
as ever, despite time, distance, and divergent paths. Elarvard: has
been for me a constant though largely unscen companion, av |
presume it has been for most of us, during the quarter century,
Most of us probably persist, if somewhat unevenly. in the Phare ard
temper of mind which sees many things as more plain than tue
but is ever eager to perceive the truth.

The twenty-five-year journey has been accomplished mown
health (only ten pounds heavier than when in college, stl poayes:
tennis, still able to follow a trail in wilderness country. bes
journey has imparted, T hope, a lierle self-hnow ledue, a few rye ors
a measure of inner strength, and some serenity based on the foo
that God reigns. At long last L have a devoted wife te share wh
ever the remaining years unfold.

In the next twenty-five years T hope for more tune than ere ¢
past for reading, reflecting, and doing a few thiners as wel! sa |
possibly can, with increased freedom from Waly presnres and fon
the tyranny of the schedule.

At the Fiftieth Reunion, I believe all of us wall sce, neces

[ 1307 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

clearly than at present, the slow emerging of a world civilization,
made inevitable by the development of the arts, the sciences, tech-
nology, and unlimited human communication. The central fact of
our time, I believe, is that the era of multiple civilizations (I do
not say cultures) is slowly drawing to a close and the new, singular
civilization will be increasingly shared by all peoples, not as tribes
or nations or continents, but as men. More and more, the singular
civilization will be sought, demanded, and self-propagated, less and
less borrowed, derived, and imposed. Along with man in orbit
world civilization has left the launching pad. Our minds and out-
looks must now reach out for a more inclusive pattern than in the

past. We shall be well on our way toward doing so by 1990.

HAROLD McBRIDE THURSTON, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 3213 Wrenford St. Kettering 9, Ohio.

[ 1308 ]

—___]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM PRATT TILLINGHAST

 

HOME AppREss: 2 Parkway Drive, Pelham, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Herald Statesman, Larkin Plaza, Yonkers, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Pelham Memorial High School, Pelham, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1040. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarRIED: Loraine T. Gregg, Dec. 27, 1941. CHILDREN: Janet Gregg, Oct. &
1944; Susan Reed, June 28, 1948.

OCCUPATION: Executive assistant to general manager, Herald Statesman.

OFFICES HELD: Village Area chairman, Pelham Community Chest Drive, tosy.
vice-president and member, board of directors, Pelham Community Chest.
1955-58; president, 1960, vice-president and member, board of directory
1963-64, Colvelly, Inc., Pelham, N.Y. (association of home owner),
member, Personnel Association of Westchester, 1959-64.

MEMBER OF: Huguenot Yacht Club, New Rochelle, N.Y.; Men's Club of Town
of Pelham (1948-60).

WITH this brief report another “lost” member of the Class of
1940 lifts his voice in greetings to the many neglected friends and
classmates of ’40! In the main, it has been a fine tw enty-five years
and I have much for which I can be both thankful and sorrow ful.

I am thankful:

— for five years in the U.S. Army Air Force as a “Weatherman”
during World War II —a period full of stress and strain, but very
worth while in lasting rewards in one of my hobbies — that of
trying to outguess the Weather Bureau Forecasts!

— for a very wonderful wife, Lorrie, and two equally wonderful
daughters, Janet and Susan. Lorrie, in addition to taking care of the
major part of raising a family and keeping a snug house, hav tn-
volved herself in many Pelham affairs — PTA, Girl Scouts, church
work, election inspector, School Board, in addition to being a power
in the Wheaton Alumnae Club of Westchester. Janet, a graduate
of Green Mountain College, is looking ahead to more colleye

[ 1309 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

studies in preparation for a teaching career in the field of art. Susan

a junior in Pelham Memorial High School, has yet no clear plan

for her future except a high ambition to go to college.

— for a splendid job with the Yonkers Herald Statesman. For the
first fifteen years I held various jobs in sales, and for the past eight
ears have been in administration or personnel — call it what you
will. My main duty seems to be that of a white collar “grease
monkey,” making sure that both the human and mechanical wheels
and gears of newspaper production keep moving smoothly, accu-
rately, and above all “ON TIME”! A truly fascinating profession
this newspaper business!

— for a Harvard education that gave me the tools and knowledge
to enjoy the finest aspects of literature, art, and music. I have many
hobbies — perhaps too many to become a real success in business
—and I owe the enjoyment of them to many golden nuggets avail-
able for the picking in the English, art, and music courses I took
at Harvard.

—for the pride I feel for most all things “Harvard” — particu-
larly for the healthy recovery of Harvard athletics during the
past ten years. I still think we had the best eight-oared crew in
the United States in 1964, even while watching them lose to Vesper
in a tough Olympic final!

As must come to all men, sorrow has come my way. My father,
Class of 1907, passed away four years ago after a happy and very
successful life.

The second loss, although not so personal, was the assassination
of our classmate Jack Kennedy. Although I never knew him at
Harvard and was not a partisan of his politics, I had vast admira-
tion for his courage, his gallantry, his pungent wit, and for his
tremendous zest for life.

The third loss was the greatest of all—the death of my onl
sister, Ruth Tillinghast, in September of 1964, very suddenly. She
had lived a full and joyous life, serving for many years as a secre-
tary for Nelson A. Rockefeller in New York City.

And so in much joy, in much sorrow, | bid the Class of 1940 the
best of luck for another fruitful twenty-five years!

[ 1310 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DONALD PEARSON TODD

 

HOME ApprREss: 14 Partridge Lane, Belmont, Mass.

OFFICE appRESS: Massachusetts General Hospital, Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Cleveland Heights High School, Cleveland Heights, Ohio,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.D., 1944.

Marriep: Marjorie Patricia Hubbard, June 5, 1943. CHILDREN: Edward Pearson,
June 22, 1945; Margaret Wingate, Sept. 7, 1951; Nancy Curtis, Sepa. ta
1953; Deborah Ann, July 25, 1958.

HARVARD SON: Edward Pearson Todd, ’67.

HARVARD BROTHER: Arthur Wingate Todd, ’35.

OCCUPATION: Physician — anesthesiologist; anesthetist and executive officer, De-
partment of Anesthesia, Massachusetts General Hospital; assistant cline al
professor of anesthesia, Harvard Medical School.

OFFICES HELD: District director, United Fund (Belmont, Mass.}, 1940; chair-
man, Membership Committee, Massachusetts Society of Anestheaologies,
1956-59.

MEMBER OF: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Society of Anes
thesiologists; American Society of Anesthesivlogists, Middlesex South
District Medical Society, Association of University Anesthetiuy, New
England Society of Anesthesiologists, Massachusetts Medical Sows,
Belmont Badminton Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “Changes in the Sympathectomized Extremity with Ancwheus”
with D. A. Felder, R. R. Linton and C. Banks, Surgery 29, 1991, "N Study
of the Deaths Associated with Surgery and Anestheua.” with Pl K.
Beecher, Annals of Surgery igo, 1954; “Prophylaxis and Treatment of
Hypertension During Anesthesia and Surgery in Man.” with J. P. Hunkes,
M. L, Levy, J. C. Dalton and A. L. Friedlich, dnesbeselugy ar, nytes,
“The Anesthetist as a Physician,” with H. RK. Beecher, HL 2 Benchern,
P. Hallowell, and H. Pontoppidan, Journal of the American Mediu ab Ae
sociation, 1964.

TWENTY-FIVE years older, one-half inch shorter, five pound
lighter, six times the family, a steady income instead of a seca
outgo and a home five miles west of Lowell House, practhung s

[ r3t ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

specialty within a specialty: anesthesiology; teaching rather than
being taught —really a process that continues learning; turned
from the promise of the Democrats to the stability of Republicanism
with certain current exceptions, from a hopeful to an avid skier,
still a rare (in frequency and score) golfer and habitual photog-
rapher, from a deferred draftee to commander, M.C., USNR,
inactive; still confident in the present, optimistic about the future
and looking forward to our Fiftieth with you all; so has a quarter-
century shaped this 1940 son of Harvard. How?

In convenient proximity, Radcliffe again helped shape a family.
Out of her Choral Society delegation to the Glee Club came a most
attractive young lady, Patricia Hubbard who graciously succumbed
to the then budding physician — and his 1938 LaSalle — on June 5,
1943, while a sophomore at Harvard Medical School. The NROTC
rescued us from financial oblivion and saw us through to an M.D.
in 1944. A surgical internship at University Hospitals, Cleveland,
was met with the first-born son, Edward (“Ted” — after Edward
VII, not Kennedy), and a jobless wife. By the flip of a nickel
(literally) of my chief of surgery at Cleveland— who could not
face sending his boys to war —I went off to active duty in the US.
Navy at Pensacola, Florida, and Honolulu. Upon M.O. at the
Staging Center, Honolulu, followed by default, Pacific Theatre
consultantship in urology (sic!) at Aiea Heights Naval Hospital,
all qualified specialists having been lost by discharge. Accelerated
release from eighteen months of active duty gave us a happy reunion
in Boston and a plunge into a cold world of surgical overcrowding.
An old medical school acquaintanceship brought an opportunity in
Henry K. Beecher’s blossoming Department of Anesthesia at the
Massachusetts General Hospital. Occasionem cognoscere urges the
Lowell House motto — which I did. From 1945, progress began
to chief resident and MGH Staff in 1947.

Meantime a tragic end came to the life of my fast friend and
four-year college roommate, William Penn Tuttle, Jr., a solid son
of New Hampshire’s earth and budding chemical engineer, in a
climbing accident on Mt. Russell in Sequsia National Park, California.

For seven years a gradual ascent of the academic ladder until
changed laws obliged us to eighteen more months of Naval service,
this time as chief of anesthesia, U.S. Naval Hospital, Bethesda. In
the interim the family had resumed expansion with Peggy in 1951
and Nancy in 1953. Bethesda and Washington made for delightful
living and gave time to establish a Board-approved residency train-

[1312]

| |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ing program and improve the golf game simultancously. Publica-
tion of the Anesthesia Death Rate Study, co-authored with Dr.
Beecher in 1954, stirred the anesthetic world and I believe (with
due modesty) stimulated much modern research. Back at the MGHI
in 1955 there came steady progress to executive officer for clinical
service and resident training at the hospital and assistant chnical
professorship at the Harvard Medical School.

A shift of home in Belmont brought on the fourth (and last)
child, Debbie, in i958. A summer-winter home in Holderness
(Squam Lake), New Hampshire, periodically restores our vigor
for the stress of a hyperphrenic hospital and school. Our fanuly
growing in stature and unity now comes full circle and has sent
the eldest, Ted (via the Harvard Prize Book), to the Class of ‘6.
In a quarter-century history repeats, one grows in love for one’s
wife and children and in knowing what love means. One strives to
extend that love in a way to his fellow-man.

Perspective now appears on the achievements of this first quarter-
century; grateful for the endowment of my parents, the nurture of
my university, the inspiration of my family, If service te one’s
neighbor thus results, and Harvard helped show the way, thi
celebration and these twenty-five years shall not have been in vain.

PETER TOMPKINS

 

HOME ApprEss: 318 A St., N.E., Washington 2, D.C.
PREPARED AT: Stowe School, Bucks, England.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.
MarriED: Jerree Talbot Smith, April 3, 1945. crutpres: Tlekers Robin, Verh
14, 1946, Timothy Christopher, Feb, 24, 1947, Ptolemy Chretua, Vow ®

1962.
[ 1313 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

occupaTION: Writer.
MEMBER OF: Larratine Yacht Club; National Press Club; Author’s Guild.
pusuicaTions: To A Young Actress, 1961, Shaw @ Molly Tompkins, 1962, The
Eunuch & The Virgin, 1963, Clarkson Potter; A Spy in Rome, 1962, The
Murder of Admiral Darlan, 1965, Simon & Schuster.

SUSPENDED at the end of freshman year (for sophistry!), chose
to pursue muse at Columbia in New York and the Sorbonne in
Paris. Hired by New York Herald Tribune in Rome to cover war
in Italy, shifted to Mutual Broadcasting System. Sick of Nazi-fascist
side, crossed lines via Balkans to cover war in Greece for NBC,
evacuated to Crete, then to Middle East. En route to Singapore,
having journeyed 2000 miles up Nile in flat-bottomed boat, was
waylaid in Nairobi by future wife; eloped 2000 more miles through
darkest Africa. |

Back in U.S. on December 7, 1941, joined General Donovan’s
COI, then OWI, then OSS, as intelligence officer in North Africa,
Sicily, Italy, France and Germany, with an interim behind the
lines. Back in New York in 1946 set about answering query: what
on earth are we doing? In 1948 returned to Europe to cover Italian
elections for CBS, stayed for five years to make films with such
old masters as G. W. Pabst and such new comers as Ponti and de
Laurentiis. Overwhelmed by a pox of censors, returned to New
York to write and direct for TV. Stilettoed on Madison Avenue,
retired to write books and pursue the quest.

SHERMAN MILTON TONKONOW

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 69 E. Main St., Meriden, Conn,

[1314]

~_ on

|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NEAL ESTABROOK TONKS

 

HOME AppRESS: 225 Midland Ave., Montclair, N_J.

OFFICE apprEss: Doremus & Co., 120 Broadway, New York 5, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940(41).

marriep: Mary Jane Brock, May 4, 1946. cHitpreN: Gretchen Estabrook, ad,
June 18, 1947; Richard Elliott, June 9, 1950; Neal Fstabrook, Jr, June 14
1958; William Ford, Dec, 12, 1962.

occupation: Advertising; vice-president — account supervisor, alws ree
sible as an officer for marketing and media.

OFFICES HELD: President, Harvard Club of New Jersey, so4g-45. ViniPark
Association of Montclair, since 1962; member of vestry, Me. Jaren
Church, Montclair, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: City Island Yacht Club; Cosmopolitan Club of Montclair, Tse:
vard Club of New Jersey.

TWENTY-FIVE years, beginning with five of Army combat, hive
added up to a great deal of satisfaction: a happy married life with
four fine children; an interesting profession in advertising with ats
many rewards; an active participation in my community, anda kees
interest in alumni affairs plus extracurricular nonsense ~~ narcly,
sailing and racing.

I discover constantly renew ed reasons for being proud tor te a
graduate of Harvard College and find great sutisfaction in Workin.
with prospective students. Religion, family » friends and a deep be hed
in the United States of America are and wall be baste.

[305 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ROBERT EDWARD TOOMEY

 

ss: 702 Crescent Ave., Greenville, S.C,
Ess: Greenville General Hospital System, 100 Mallard St., Green-

a)

Browne and Nichols School, Cambridge, Mass.

LEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; ED.M. (Boston Univ.), 1941,
‘umbia Univ.), 1951. -

rette Creighton, Oct. 9, 1943. CHILDREN: Robert Creighton, May

Carole Laurette, Nov. 10, 1952; Richard Kirk, Oct. 21, 1954;
Elizabeth, Oct. 9, 1958. |

‘rector, Greenville General Hospital System.

fember, board of trustees, South Carolina Hospital Association,
elected 1961 to present; president, South Carolina Hospital As-
1957-58, Carolinas-Virginias Hospital Conference, 1957-58;
gint Institute Planning Committee for North and South Car-
‘al Associations’ Executive Development Program, 1959, 1961;
ducation Division, South Carolina Hospital Association, since
an, Education Division, South Carolina Hospital Association,
iairman, Committee on Blue Cross-Hospital Relations (South
spital Association), 1959-62; member, board of directors,
1a Hospital Service Plan, since 1957; member, Council of
rican College of Hospital Administrators, since 1964; mem-
trustees, United Fund of Greenville County, 1963-66, mem-
Hospital Association’s Council on Research and Education,
ican Hospital Association’s Council on Blue Cross and
6, American Hospital Association’s House of Delegates,
1or’s Committee on Nursing, 1963, State Study Committee
vhol and Drug Addiction, 1963, South Carolina Social
Board, 1964, State Board of Health Hospital Advisory

uth Carolina Hospital Association’s Mental Health Com-
irman, board of trustees, Episcopal Day School, Green-
secretary, Committee for Medical School in Greenville,

us articles, including “Setting Objectives: Efficient Man-

[ 1316 |

—

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

agement,” Hospitals, August, 1963; “A Psychiatric Unit in a General Eles-
pital,” Hospital Topics, February, 1964; “Financial Management, Planned
and Controlled,” Hospital Progress, February, 1964, “Are Full-Time Cline
icians the Answer?” September, 1963, “Adding New Dimensions to Tewed
Principles,” November, 1963, Trustee.

FROM 1940 to 1949, my life was rather non-directive. I drifted
from college to graduate school at Boston University where U carned
a Master’s degree in Education. While a graduate student, 1940-41,
and during the academic year, 1941-42, I taught English and history
and coached football, wrestling and crew at Browne and Nichols
School in Cambridge.

J joined the Army Map Service in Washington, D.C., as a peogra-
pher in June of 1942 and worked there until drafted in October of
that same year. During my service years I was assigned to the
Security-Intelligence Corps and to the Medical Administration
Corps. I was discharged in the spring of 1946.

From 1946 to 1949, I was employed as a psychologist with the
Veterans Administration in Detroit, Michigan. During much of this
time I was a counselor for the psychiatrically disabled veterans. My
major outside activity during these years was coaching crew at the
Detroit Boat Club. |

In 1949 I returned to school. I enrolled as a graduate student in
Hospital Administration at the Graduate School of Public Health,
Columbia University, New York City. I received my S.M. degree
in 1951.

In October of 1953, I became the director of the Greenville Gen-
eral Hospital. Since that time, this hospital has become one of the
largest in the Southeast and has pioneered in several areas of manage-
ment. We have grown to become a hospital system embracing three
general hospitals and a nursing center for long-term care, We are
presently in the process of planning additional general and special
health care facilities. This is perhaps the forcrunner of a new move:
ment in hospital operation, The merger of hospitals, the operation
of a chain of hospitals and health care Institutions, gives prone of
a major administrative breakthrough in our efforts to Preserve | the
voluntary private system of health “and medical services.

Unlike the first nine years, occupationally, the last fifteen sears
have been years of dedicated effort in an occupation w hich os
fascinating, deserving of dedicated effort, and of major timpertance
to each person in the community and to the community inelf, te
is tragic that hospitals were such late-comers into the tield of apphe d

[ 1317 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

and theoretical management. If hospitals have the Opportunity to
operate without government controls for another five or ten years,
they will have completed their transition from operations whose
management was oriented toward the early 1900's to enterprises
whose management is as learned and sophisticated as any in the era
of the 1960's. When this transition is completed, hospitals will be-
come an economically sound, financially stable industry capable of
determining its own destiny and future.

| married Miss Laurette Creighton in October of 1943. We have
had four children, two girls and two boys. This fall, my elder son
entered the University of North Carolina, Chapel Hill, North
Carolina, and my youngest daughter entered the first grade at
Christ Church Episcopal School in Greenville, South Carolina. We
are proud that our elder boy was awarded a Morehead Scholarship
by the Morehead Foundation. This scholarship is for four years at
the University of North Carolina, The award is based on scholastic
achievement, athletic and extracurricular achievement. During his
years at Christ School in Arden, North Carolina, Bob was always
an honor student. He was captain of the football team, an outstand-
ing soccer player and good for twenty to twenty-five points in
every track meet. In addition, he was editor of the school paper,
took an active part in dramatics, and was class officer, school officer
and senior prefect. :

Laurie and I are proud of our children and have been happy in
their achievements. I have been a most fortunate husband, having
found a wonderful wife, one who could put up with my many
foibles and all my imperfections.

Let me indulge myself and any readers by adding a kind of post-
script. | approached this 25th anniversary autobiographical sketch
with considerable reluctance and skepticism. I am happy at the
moment at having had the chance to take a retrospective look at
these last twenty-five years.

As a final matter of interest, I am extremely proud of these two
particular items:

An editorial entitled “A Servant to Humanity,” that appeared in
the Greenville News on September 12, 1961, and a “Certificate of

Appreciation,” presented to me in September, 1961, by the City of
Greenville.

[ 1318 J

i

__|

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JAMES JOSEPH TOSNEY

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 4 Glen Ave., Methuen, Mass.

SUMNER EARL TRENT

ETI TRS Te ee ee ate mo ae
ane ane eR 3
3 . ™,
» £ - ™ 4
f, OF

  

BRD Ey ARE,

 

HOME ApprESs: 848 Roxanne Ave., Long Beach 15, Calif,
OFFICE ADDRESS: 4301 Atlantic Ave., Long Beach 7, Calif.
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1937-1940. DEGREES: A.B., Cum laude, 1940, ap. (Tufts Coll),
1943.

MarRRiED: Delores Thomas, Sept. 1, 1955. CHILDREN: Thomas William, May a4,
1956; Jonathan Sumner, Sept. 2, 1958; Jennifer Anne, Nov. 14, 1yAw.

occuPATION: Psychiatrist; private practice of psychoanalysis and psychotherapy

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, Long Beach Mental Hivgicne Se

ciety, 1953-55; vice-president, 1954-55, president, 1963-44, Long Reahk

Psychiatric Society; member, Schools Commuttee, Harvard Club of Suusth
ern California, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Academy of Psychoanalysis (fellow); American Psyehiatre As
sociation; Society of Medical Psychoanalysts; Southern Calturnsa and
Long Beach Psychiatric Societies; American Medical Awuctuton, ban

[ 1319 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Angeles County Medical Association; American Association for the Ad
yancement of Science; American Medical Writers’ Association; Academy
of Religion and Mental Health; Harvard Club of Southern California y
pusLications: “Peripheral Sensory Inhibition of Pain,” Journal of Nervous and
Mental Disease, April, 1956; two other papers in technical journals,

] SAW World War IJ reach its climax while I was still in medica]
school. When we graduated, we were allowed an internship and a
residency, each nine months long, before going into active service,
Mine were at St. Elisabeth’s Hospital in Washington, D.C., and at
Worcester State Hospital in Massachusetts, respectively. When
we got into uniform the war in Europe had halted, and we expected
to be battalion surgeons or divisional psychiatrists on the road to
Tokyo. Before we got our assignments, however, It occurred and
the Japanese surrendered. As a result, I was a hospital psychiatrist
in occupied Germany and had a chance to see a little of that country.
I got back to Cambridge in time to hear General Marshall at the
1947 Commencement propose his plan for reconstruction in central
Europe.

A civilian again, I took a year’s residency at Bellevue Hospital in
New York and a second psychiatric residency there after that. Then
followed three years of post-residency psychoanalytic training at
New York Medical College. After several years of private practice
in New York City, I pulled up my still very tenuous roots and
moved to the then uncrowded West Coast.

I practised in Long Beach, California, for two years before |
met and married Delores. Instead of buying a home and settling
down right away as most do out here, we spent much of that down
payment on a month-long honeymoon driving a rented jalopy around
southern and central France, from Arles to Perignan to Lascaux.
We're glad we did it then before the children came, because we're
unlikely to do anything like that again until they’re much older.

They’re the source of a lot of satisfaction for us and some per-
plexity. Tommy is eight and full of curiosity. He likes to take
things apart. Jonathan is a warm and cuddly six. He is an authority
on trucks and bulldozers and is now learning to read. Jennifer is
an independent four who has become one of the social leaders of
ber nuney sca cs, Tve found mya caught up in chil

y, of which I never would have believed
myself capable some years ago.

Delores was one of the five women who se
Gallery at the Long Beach Art Museum five yeus agen Rental

and she’s
{ 1320 }

en cgante mbar MDE SES .

LETTE

wory gre Te PAT PME 2 ca 8

ee |

helped run it ever since. She recently discovered the little theater.
She’s acted in four local productions. Her latest is a remarkably
good showing of ‘The Three Penny Opera.” But more important
than all this, she’s a good mother and a patient and resourceful wife.
Outside of my family and my practice, my main interests have
been volunteer teaching and technical writing. Several years aya,
I taught an adult education course in the history of ideas at the
Unitarian Church. It was followed by another on propaganda
analysis. At present, I teach elementary outpatient psychotherapy
to interns at a local hospital. Pve written three technical papers. |
want to write more but I'll have to learn to budget my time better.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

VINCENT D. TRINKER

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 435 Westfield St., Rochester 19, N.Y.

[1321]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

MICHAEL KYREAKOS TSOUPRAKAKIS

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 16 Cabot St., Lowell, Mass.

JOHN GUILD TUCKER

 

HOME ADDRESS: 32 Green St., Monson, Mass.

PrepareD At: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; M.B.A., 1947.

MarRiED: Helen James, Aug. 25, 1944, CHILDREN: Joan Guild, Sept. 2°
Henry Guild, April 8, 1948; Virginia Gibson, Sept. 2, 1949.

HARVARD BROTHER: Samuel Lombard Tucker, 44 (deceased).

occupation: Manufacturing.

| 1322 |

—$_$_$___.

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LEVERETT SALTONSTALL TUCKERMAN, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 51 E. gist St., New York, N.Y. 10028.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Technical Analysis Group, Inc: 25 W. 30th Se. New York,
N.Y. 10018.

PREPARED AT: Lenox School, Lenox, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., C1072 latidé, 1940; A.M. 1942.

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Sanders Tuckerman, ‘44, pip. "58.

occuPaTiIon: Consulting engineer.

MEMBER OF: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Engineers, Fsace County
Club, Manchester, Mass.; St. Bartholomew's Community Club, New York
City.

PUBLICATIONS: Patents; Radar Contour Mapping System, Photo-Radar Terran
Mapping System.

IN the years since graduation I have lived in enough places and had
enough different patterns of daily living to make a long Ine. There
have been friends, associates, contacts and acquaintances of all hinds
and types of outlook. For recreation I have plaved tennix driven
sports cars, sailed schooners and swum in the ocean in walely
scattered places. (I have not yet tricd my hand at golf, but have
been toying with the idea.) In spite of all this varicty, it has became
evident as time goes on that life is a process of continuing personal
and professional development, largely rooted in: asocanens and
ideas formed in undergraduate days. In acknow ledying the, P should
at this point mention those persons — parents and ‘othe rs = wathout
whose help this would not have come about. Incilentally, is
always a joy to return to Cambridge, which FT frequently do on the
slightest pretext.

To make a long story short: After two vears in the Cirahusce
School, and briefly serving as instructor in Cruft Lab, Edad a wae:
time hitch in the Navy, with duty on the cast and west ceaste and

[ 1323 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

later in Hawaii and the western Pacific, mostly in connection With
radar installation and maintenance. This was followed by engineer-
ing research and development work, initially at the Raytheon Com-
pany in Waltham and later in New York at Republic Aviation and
elsewhere, mostly in missile guidance and control, digital computers,
electronics systems analysis and more recently in optics. 1 am hopin
to get into the aerospace field later on, although this would probably
entail moving away from New York, which I am Joath to do at the
moment, os
At present 1 am associated with a small, loosely organized group
of consultants, and fight the battle of the subways daily. Tam a
member of St. Thomas Episcopal Church and was active in the
local unit of the Naval Research Reserve before transferring to the
Retired Reserve this year. In my off hours (when they occur), I

enjoy socializing, listening to jazz and keeping the roof green here
at No. 51.

HOWARD MOORE TURNER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 342 Woodbury Rd, Huntington, Long Island, N.Y.

orFice appress: D'Arcy Advertising Co., 430 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE! 1935-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1940,

marriep: Josephine DeCamp Rose, Sept. 2, 1944. cHitDREN: Hope Dumaresq,
Feb. 25, 1947; Howard Ross, March 12, 1953.

occupation: Advertising; director of merchandising, D’ Arcy Advertising Com-
pany- oo .

orFices HELD: Member, Admissions Committee and Activities Committee, Har-

vard Club of New York; publicity chairman, Associated Harvard Clubs
Meeting, June, 1965.

[ 1324 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Sales Executive Club of New York
City; Sales Promotion Executives Association.

PUBLICATIONS: Sales Promotion That Gets Results, McGraw-Hill, 1959.

AS classmates, we have had the common experience of living
through an amazing twenty-five years. We've seen the advent of
the Nuclear Age, the Jet Age, the Space Age, the Computer Age.
and the Teen-Age! Like most of us, I have survived it all in good
shape and feel reasonably ready to cope with the Next Age.

As for the experience of the past eighteen years, since TE quit
flying for the Navy in 1946, I have been in marketing, most: spe-
cifically in advertising. In this field, accelerating changes have con-
tinually revolved around expanding markets, shifting consumer
habits, and constant product innovation. Advertising, in  itsclf,
reflects and exaggerates many of the paradoxes of our way of living.
It helps to produce some of the most important and dramatic market-
ing successes, while at the same time it is stirring up all kinds of
controversy related to ways and means. As a career, advertising ts
a volatile, demanding, and at times downright unstable business,
and it is continually fascinating and challenging.

I have worked with automobiles (Larks and Mercedes), talcum
powder, Plaid Stamps, chinaware, carpets, French tentiles, shampoo,
and many other products. As director of merchandising, I deal
with every facet of the marketing process that affects distribution
and sales. At the same time, I directly handle the advertising ac-
counts for several Colgate products.

In the next five or ten years, advertising is going to have to do ats
part in meeting the challenge of the future, helping the world con-
sumer economy to expand. At the same time, there is a continuing
pressure for governmental regulation from ditferent directions

My personal hope (admittedly biased )is that between vocal critics
of the intelligentsia and politically motivated congressmen, advertis-
ing will be allowed to stay unfettered enough to perform the job
of keeping our economy running at full blast.

Prior to moving to the D’Arcy agency, I was in the marketing
end of the carpet business for over ten years, the lase seven with
Lees Carpets in Philadelphia. As sales promotion manager, my pro-
grammed approach to selling the product led to MeGraw-Ehll's
request that I write them a book on sales promotion, Tt was pub-
lished in 1959.

Life in Huntington, despite a rather horrendous commute, is a mest
pleasant one. I indulge myself in Old Man's hockey, trapshooruns,

[ 1325 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

sailing, tennis, and other pleasures, and on Sundays teach an ob-
streperous Episcopal sixth grade my Unitarian background version
of the history of the church.

My son Howard is twelve and is getting very good at picking out
those problems in the new math which I am able to cope with. I
think he has a good future.

Hope is eighteen and graduating from Farmington this June. Last
summer she spent as a guide for the Telephone Company at the
World's Fair. The previous summer she had the unusual experience

of being an American baby sitter for seven French kids on an oyster
farm in Brittany, She’s driving across the United States this July
and then goes on to college in the fall.

My wife, Jo, has kept herself absorbed in everything from Rus-
sian to local symphony orchestras, to selling a line of Madras-covered
picture frames to department stores and cooking superbly at the
same time.

In the next few years | hope to expand my interests to include
more writing for fun and profit and becoming a more active partici-
pant on the political scene — not as a candidate but as a communi-
cator helping to develop ways to promote issues as well as candidates.

+ WILLIAM PENN TUTTLE, JR.

 

BORN: Jan. 6, 1919, Boston, Mass. Parents: William Penn Tuttle, Barbara
Clarke.
prepareD AT: Dover High School, Dover, N-H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, 1940; PH. (Univ. of California at
Los Angeles), 1943.
pep: Aug. 24, 1946, Sequoia National Park, Calif,

AFTER graduation Tuttle enrolled in the University of California
{ 1326 }

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

at Los Angeles as a graduate student and teaching assistant in chem-
istry and received a Ph.D. in 1943. He then spent six months as a
research chemist with the Eastman Kodak Company before joining
the Navy as an ensign. He served aboard the attack transport Lanier
as a boat officer and ship’s photographer and was promoted to hicuten-
ant (j.g.) in February, 1946. He died while mountain climbing in
the high Sierras.

DAVID NORMAN ULRICH

 

HOME AppREss: 9 Old Stone Rd., Darien, Conn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: DuBois Day Treatment Center, 49 Glenbrook Rd. Scamford,
Conn,

PREPARED AT: Queen Anne High School, Seattle, Wash.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., magna cum laude tygny stm as
cum laude, 1943; PH.D., 1956.

MaRRIED: Mary Louise Jorjorian, Dec. 29, 1962. CHILDREN: Michacl Flli Plarbe-
son, April 19, 1953 (stepson); James Loudon, Feb. 5, tg64.

occuPaTIon: Clinical psychologist.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association, American Orthopechutrs
Association; Connecticut Psychological Society; Amencan Board of be.
aminers in Professional Psychology (diplomate).

ON leaving Harvard College I possessed at least the rudunenty of
an orientation toward past and future centuries but was still quite
perplexed about my place in this one. I crossed the river ta vet an
M.B.A., crossed the Pacific to serve as ordnance ofheer on an
aircraft carrier (it is long enough ago now so that one hutle
acquaintance recently asked me, “W hich side were yeu on?”),
returned to the Business School to research in human relations, arnt
then, ten years after leaving Lowell House, returned to the othee
side of Plympton Street to study at the Psychological Chine, Phen

[ 1327 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

came five years on the staff of the Judge Baker Guidance Center in
Boston, a psychiatric clinic and training center with an extensive
research program in problems of child adjustment.

After one year as chief psychologist at the Mid-Fairfield Child
Guidance Center in Norwalk, Connecticut, 1 spent four years with
the public school system in Darien and then moved one more com-
muter-stop west to become chief psychologist at the Franklin S.
DuBois Day Treatment Center in Stamford. Here we are working
to improve treatment methods for patients who are too ill to respond
to outpatient psychiatric care, but not so ill as to compel their full-
time residence in hospital. This work, which is in what might be
called one of the less well-developed sectors of the national effort,
provides as much challenge and permits as much commitment as
one might hope to find.

In order to keep matters in balance, I have complemented the
institutional work with private practice, diagnosing and treating
adjustment problems of children.

In 1962 1 successfully arrested a long-term trend toward bachelor-
hood. Luckily for all of us, my wife has no need of professional
expertise for her inspirations about family living, so I can check the
psychology at the door. All of us include a sixth-grader stepson
who has been patiently outwaiting those initial fumbles in father-
hood, and a nine-month-old whose daily craving for discovery is
a joy to behold.

As for social, religious, or political views, this could get ponder-
ous, so I will sum up by observing that even if we don’t seem to
know just where we're all going, it seems obvious that we’re not
stopping; and whatever we call it, our system does seem to offer
the best hope of being able to recoup our mistakes. No matter
how much fear we manage to generate, the hopes always seem to
weigh more in the balance. If this is the first century in which we
possess the option of destroying ourselves, it is also perhaps the first

in which we begin to perceive at least dimly the option of mastering
ourselves, and this is excitement enough.

[ 1328 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

NORMAN CONWELL UPDEGRAFF

 

HOME AppRESS: 2564 Cherosen Rd., Louisville, Ky. 40205.

OFFICE AppRESS: Louisville Fire Brick Works, Louisville, Ry. 40221.

PREPARED AT: Gunnery School, Washington, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MARRIED: Elisabeth Patricia Ropke, Jan. 14, 1943. CHILDREN: Elisabeth Conwell,
June 8, 1946; Robert Franklin, Jan. 27, 1948; David Karl, July 25, 1930
OCCUPATION: President, Louisville Fire Brick Works, a refractory manufac-

turing firm; vice-president, Taylor-Updegraff Corporation, manufacturers
. representatives.

MEMBER OF: American Chemical Society; American Ceramic Socicty; Harvard
Engineering Society; Harvard Business School Club of Kentucky; Plar-
vard Club of Kentucky; Louisville Boat Club.

puBLicaTions: Author or co-author of a number of technical articles on chem
ical and petroleum processes; contributor to Encyclopedia of Chereus ad
Technology and The Encyclopedia of Chemnstry, US. Patent Na
2,876,071, Method for Producing Hydrogen Sulfide by Synthews,

IT is hard to believe that twenty-five years have passed since I
graduated from Harvard and plunged into the working workd. 1
was armed with an A.B. degree taken in chemistry and engineering
sciences which I found hard to explain to employers that dada’
understand that an S.B. from Harvard merely indicated an ignorance
of Latin.

My first job as a chemical engineer was in research and develop-
ment work for General Foods Corporation. With the coming of
the war, however, I moved into more essential work with the
du Pont Company in the production of synthetic rubber, It was
thus in 1942 that I was transferred to Louisville, Kentucky, where
I met my wife and have settled down, I hope, for good.

With the end of the war I had become weary of working on
rotating shifts, a little bored with production work and thus beft

[ 1329 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

years have treated me kindly. I have all my hair, althou
white, am not too much heavier than when I graduated
don’t feel old at all, just more mature.

During the years my interests have changed a lot and I am
eternally grateful that I took many liberal arts courses at Harvard
as well as the purely technical subjects. The latter were necessary
to get into a career but the arts courses have trained me better for
enjoying life and will probably stick with me more for the next
twenty-five years as I get further away from technical work.

gh turning
and really

ROBERT GORDON URQUHART

 

HOME AbprEss: Box 64, Williamsville, N.Y. 14221.

OFFICE appress: Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory, Buffalo, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Eastern High School, Detroit, Mich.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: 8.B., magna cum laude, 1940; 8.M., 1941.

marriep: Adelaide Parker Bangs, July 17, 1944. cattp: Robert Gordon, Jr.,
June 5, 1945.

HARVARD SON: Robert Gordon Urquhart, Jr., °67. .

occupation: Aerospace research, design and analysis; principal systems en-
gineer, Cornell Aeronautical Laboratory.

OFFICES HELD: Project engineer, AVCO Research and Advanced Development
Division, 1957 to December, 1964; precinct captain, Andover Republican
Town Committee, 1961-64; chairman, Finance Committee, Old Cam-
bridge Baptist Church, 1963-64.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics (associate
fellow); Phi Beta Kappa; Sigma Xi, Andover Historical Society,

IN spite of my honors engineering degree from Harvard, in 1940, I
was unable to realize my ambition to get into the automotive in-
dustry in my hometown Detroit. The approaching war had turned
the emphasis from autos to aircraft, and like many others, I pre-

[ 1332 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

pared for defense work by returning to Harvard for acronautical

engineering. When we became directly involved in the Sccond

World War, I was doing my part by helping to build Chance Vouvhe

Corsairs in Stratford, Connecticut, for the Navy and Marines. With

the war’s end the bottom dropped out of the aircraft business and

educating returned G. I.’s appeared the only employment for an
aeronautical engineer. Thus started my years of wandering about
the United States with my family in search of the remuncrative and
interesting positions in education, aircraft design and testing, and
finally missile development. From propeller-driven fighters in tgy4t
and supersonic jet missiles in 1951 I found myself at the beginning
of 1956 one of the men starting the Titan ICBM development in
Denver. From that it was perhaps logical that the path led into the
Intercontinental Ballistic Missile “Re-entry Vehicle” R/V business
with AVCO back in Massachusetts.

Our travels covered a good part of the United States, and besides
the opportunity to visit most of the scenic wonders of this country,
we were able to live in many colorful and romantic areas. From
Minnesota to Texas, and Maryland to California, we spent a vear
or two in distinctive American localities with rich histories and
fascinating opportunities for recreation. We climbed small and
large mountains in California; explored some old diggings “rock-
hunting” in New Mexico, and visited abandoned mines in Nevada
and current gold and silver mining operations in South Dakota and
Arizona. Living in New Mexico, we were only a few hours from
Mexican life in Juarez or the Indian towns in the mountains. Less
than twenty miles from our home we spent enjoyable hours turning
up arrowheads and shards of pottery left by the 1sth-century fore-
runners of the Apaches. It was a marvelous opportunity to learn and
experience the history and development of our country. Our son's
education apparently was not suffering in the clementary grades
spent in Maryland, California, Massachusetts, New Mexico, and
Colorado, but secondary education was cause for some concern, In
spite of, or possibly because of, some activity with the PLEA, in
Colorado, we came to the conclusion that high schools would be
superior in New England. That, coupled with our desire to try
Massachusetts for year-round living as well as summers (Martha's
Vineyard), led us to the vicinity of Boston,

In Andover, now for seven years, after no more than two years in
any one town since Stratford, Connecticut, 1 had started lcal Re-
publican work with the 1960 election, Almost immediately, [was

[ 1333 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

assigned to Town Committee duties in my precinct, and although
[ have had a measure of success in getting out the Republican vote,
getting candidates elected statewide has been another matter. With
our son heading from Andover to Harvard, we became active in the
Old Cambridge Baptist Church, just across from the Freshman Union.
There we found great satisfaction in church work associated with
college students and involving many of the social problems of Cam-
bridge and greater Boston. The past two years I have been acting

as finance chairman, trying to put my political soliciting experience

to better use in raising the church budget.

Twenty-five years after Harvard 1 am just as firm a Republican
as with my first vote against Roosevelt from Cambridge in 1940.
On the purely local level, Andover and Fssex County, I should like
to continue to work for better government for Massachusetts; Re-
publican, of course! However, at the beginning of 1965 we are pre-
paring to leave Massachusetts for missile work in another area of the
country. This will mean developing new political and social relation-
ships. We are moving from Andover to the eastern suburbs of
Buffalo where my work will be on the “defense” against ballistic
missiles, rather than the “offense” At the Cornell Aeronautical
Laboratory 1 shall be a principal systems engineer, and shall be
joining my Classmates J. Norman Ball and Hamilton Daughaday,
who have been with CAL for some years. We are looking forward
to the challenges of new work and a new life in New York state.

 

HOME apprEss: 1114 E. Shelby St., Seattle, Wash. 98102.
oFFIce Appress: Van Horne & Van Horne, Architects, 2909 Fuhrman Ave. E.
Seattle, Wash. ao

1 1334]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938. DEGREE: B.ARCH. (New York Univ.), 1947.

MARRIED: Audrey Legh Jupp, March 22, 1947. CHILDREN: Susan Wendell, June
4, 1948; Jill Marie, April 14, 1950; Garret John, June 12, 1958, Francine
Grace, June 16, 1960; Peter Joris, Nov. 9, 1962.

occupation: Architect; partner with my wife, Harvard G.S.D., ’47.

OFFICES HELD: A.].A. Committee on Civic Planning, 1955-56.

MEMBER OF: American Institute of Architects (professional associate).

PUBLICATIONS: Co-owner, “FireHOOD,” metal fireplace.

AFTER leaving Harvard, I took up the study of architecture at
New York University, working in architects’ offices, and in ship
design during the early part of the war. I was inducted into the
Seabees in ’43 and spent two years in service, mostly in Hawaii and
the Philippines. Returning to New York in ’45, 1 worked with the
architectural firms of Nemeny and Geller, and Raymond and Rado,
and completed my studies for a Bachelor of Architecture. In ’47 my
wife and I took up our residence in Boston while she completed her
thesis for a Bachelor of Architecture at the Harvard Graduate School
of Design. I took my architect’s license in New York in ’48, and that
summer we headed west to Seattle in a ’35 Ford Phaeton with our
youngest, three months old, in a laundry basket in the back seat.

In Seattle, I worked in several architectural offices, including those
of Paul Thiry, and Bassetti and Morse. I helped design churches,
office buildings, apartments, schools, a regional college. I was
licensed in Washington in ’49 and my wife in ’56, when we sct up
in practice under our present firm name. Our own jobs include
Unitarian churches, stores, offices, a shopping center, motels, a good
many residences. We designed a Peace Information Exhibit for the
Friends, and the Hiroshima Exhibit at the Seattle World's Fair.
Spreading the Gospel of modern architecture has been sometimes
a struggle, but always rewarding. We live the good life in a con-
temporary house of our own design a half-block from Portage Bay.
We keep a small boat at the street end. Summers we boat and camp
in the mountains and on the shores of Puget Sound.

[ 1335 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

+s PETER VAN PELT

 

it

BORN: Sept. 11, 1917, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Joseph King Turner Van Pelt,
Katherine Bowie.

PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

MarrieD: Jane Bodine. cump: a daughter.

piep: Killed in action, Aug. 10, 1944, in France.

BEFORE entering the service, Van Pelt was a reporter for the
Philadelphia Evening Bulletin. After two years as a member of the
First Troop, Philadelphia City Cavalry of the National Guard of
Pennsylvania, he took courses to qualify for a commission as a second
lieutenant of the Infantry. Called to active duty in February, 1941,
he was assigned to the 111th Infantry of the 28th Division, later
transferred to the 110th Infantry, and prior to going overseas in
September, 1943, had been promoted successively to first lieutenant
and captain. The Division trained in England for a year and landed
in Normandy in July, 1944. He was killed in action in France and
was survived by his wife and daughter.

[ 1336 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

DAVID SAMUELS VAN VORT

 

HOME AppREsS: 1009 Park Ave., Apt. 11B, New York, N.Y. 10028.

OFFICE appREss: Louis Dreyfus Corp., 26 Broadway, New York, N.Y, toony

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936—1940. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Jean Lehman, June 12, 1943 (died Dec. 26, 1962). campars: Walter
B., June 4, 1947; David Samuels, Jr., Feb. 22, 1951; Mary, July & tos2.

HARVARD BROTHER: Burton Ebert Van Vort, ’44 (deceased).

OccUPATION: Vice-president, Louis Dreyfus Corporation, grain exporters.

MEMBER OF: Downtown Athletic Club, New York City, Rockland Country
Club, Sparkhill, N.Y.

AS poets and churchmen say, twenty-five years passes as a moment.
One looks back on the acquisition, sometimes gradual, sometimes
painful, of the various external manifestations of “success,” as well
as the known private failures. I think Harvard might have helped
in the understanding of the latter.

There was the day of unemployment after graduation, the vear
on training squad in a large department store; four years in the
Army; and all the rest as a business man, grain exporter by technical
training.

There was a brother, a wife, a father. There are three children,
two boys and a girl; a mother; also the average accumulanion of
worldly goods, There is an appreci iation of historical sites, momue-
ments, art, music and literature in which Harvard, by osm, rather
than by my design, played a most important role. There ix I heipe,
an understanding of the political forces and events in my hfceune,
the beginnings of whieh were conceived ac Elarvard. There es
finally, the question of what to do with the next twenty-five years,

{ 1337]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

BRADLEY WILLIAM VAUGHAN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 1733 Rockrose Rd., West Sacramento, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Spreckels Sugar Co., Woodland, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Park Lodge School, Pau, France,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1938.

marriep: Adella A. Cheadle, Aug. 21, 1945 (died March 14, 1955). CHILD:
Virginia Ann, Oct. 11, 1946.

occupation: Beet sugar manufacturing; in charge of purchasing in Woodland,
California, agricultural department branch of Spreckels Sugar Company.

OFFICES HELD: Offices in religious groups; deacon, Conservative Baptist Church,
1956-65.

Member oF: Central Baptist Church, Sacramento, Calif.

UPON leaving Harvard I was employed by Spreckels Sugar Com-
pany. Subsequently I was beckoned by Uncle Sam in March, 1942,
and inducted into the Army. I served overseas in the Counter-In-
telligence Corps approximately two and one-half years and then re-
turned to my initial employer where I presently find myself. My
work entails buying and evaluating materials to use in our Agricul-
tural Maintenance Program. Quite interesting, a little involved, but
(I am told) essential work. All adds up to the final product we put
out — pure, granulated refined beet sugar. The little traveling I have
done has been in California where I find everything one could ask
for within comparatively easy reach. .

My daughter plans to attend a Bible school, and I am currently
contemplating continuing my education and plan to enroll at
Sacramento State College with a major in French. My religious
convictions are centered primarily around a way of life which I
discovered for myself about fourteen years ago when | accepted
Christ as personal Savior and became a Christian, My daughter and
I have never regretted this commitment we individually made and

[1338 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have been happy and secure in a world of turmoil and comparauve
insecurity.

My political convictions are definitely conservative and I regret,
as twenty-seven million others no doubt also regret, that we con-
tinue to steer an insecure course of vacillation, compromise and
indecision on the part of our leaders. The world today, needless to
say, has become a boiling cauldron and a potpourri of people and
ideals that just can’t seem to get together.

VICTOR CLARENCE VAUGHAN, Ill

 

HOME ADDRESS: 125 W. Walnut Lane, Philadelphia, Pa. 19144.

OFFICE ADDRESS: St. Christopher’s Hospital for Children, 2600 N. Lawrence Se.
Philadelphia, Pa. 19133.

PREPARED AT: St, Christopher’s School, Richmond, Va.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREES: A.B., 1940(39)3; M.D. 1943.

MarrRiED: Deborah Cloud, Dec, 27, 1941. CHILDREN: Jonathan, June 1a toe4,
Judith, June 20, 1945 (died June 20, 1945); Sarah, Oct. 2, 1949; Joanna,
June 26, 1950.

HARVARD BROTHERS: Warren Taylor Vaughan, Jr, "41, stp. “43; Joho Heath
Vaughan, ’43, M.D., 45; David DuPuy Vaughan, ’44, sop, "44.

occupaTION: Physician; professor and chairman, Department of Pedhatrws
Temple University School of Medicine; medical director, Se. Chineopher's
Hospital for Children.

OFFICES HELD: Professor and chairman, Department of Pediatric Medheal Cal-
lege of Georgia, 1957-64; member, American Board of Pediatricy ite 44,
chairman, Augusta Chapter, Georgia Council on Human Relations, ea.

MEMBER OF: Society for Pediatric Research; American Pediatrie Surety, Pe-
diatric Travel Club; other medical and scientific societice

PUBLICATIONS: Papers published on hemolytic disease of newborn, allergy ia
childhood, growth and development; contributor to Neboa, WL Eo deat
book of Pediatrics, 5th, 7th, 8th editions,

[ 1339]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

RECAPITULATION: in 1939 entered Harvard Medical School
and met Deborah at Wellesley; after medical school a pediatric
internship at Massachusetts General Hospital (1943), pediatric resi-
dency at Yale (1944-47), and a spell of research activity at Harvard
and Boston Children’s Hospital (1947-49); then back to Yale as an
instructor and assistant professor of pediatrics (1949-52), to Temple
University School of Medicine as associate professor (1952-57),
and to the Medical College of Georgia as professor and chairman
(1957-64); now back to Temple as professor and chairman and as
medical director of St. Christopher’s Hospital for Children.

Along the way we have moved thirteen times, have owned a few
acres of Connecticut farmland and bits of Pennsylvania and Georgia,
have learned how to camp cross country in station wagons and
State Parks, have dabbled in photography and music, and have
indulged a penchant for old and undernourished houses. —

The segment of our lives in sharpest focus just now is the seven
years in Georgia, where we were related to a rapidly changing com-
munity through its medical school (a State-supported institution)
and through its Council on Human Relations and the Religious
Society of Friends. When we arrived in Augusta, the Council was
virtually the community’s only interracial forum. Seven years
later, it having become the express will of the community’s leader-
ship, many racial barriers in Augusta have disappeared and others
are dissolving. This has been good to see at close hand. No one
who has not been close to this area of human relations in the South
can imagine how much courage, humor, warmth, and love there is
there that tempers anger and frustration and binds in common
purpose those who have become the catalysts of social change.

Back in Philadelphia now, another community with its own unique
problems and resources, both like and unlike Georgia’s. With
another quarter of a century to go here (actuarially, at any rate),
we should have no trouble keeping ourselves somehow involved for
as long as legs and wind permit.

[ 1340 }

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

FREDERIC BALLOU VIAUX

 

HOME apprEss: 15 Norfolk Rd., Chestnut Hill, Mass. 02167.

OFFICE ApprEss: Garland Junior College, 409 Commonwealth Ave. Boston, Masa.
02215.

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., magna cton laude, t940, EDM tod

MarRiED: Margarita Samayoa y Lerma, Dec. 26, 1941. cuupars: Mana Mar-
garita Minot, Goucher ’66, Feb. 17, 1945; Michelle Bethune, Jan. 13, tte,
Juaquin Posada, Feb. 14, 1955 (Cuban refugee boy for whom we became
legal guardians, Sept. 14, 1962).

occupaTIoN: President, Garland Junior College.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Rensselaer County Junior Museum, since tgs, mem-
ber of corporation, Beaver Country Day School, since toss; trustee, Cam
monwealth School, since 1961; member, Brookline School Committee,

' 1961-64; director, Brookline Council for Public Schools, since tofa, were
tary, 1963, treasurer, 1964, New England Junior College Council, direvtoe,
Neighborhood Association of Back Bay, since 1963.

MEMBER OF: American Association of Junior Colleges, New England Junsoe
College Council; Skating Club of Boston; Harvard Club of Boston, Long:
wood Cricket Club; Nantucket Yachr Club; Navy League of the US.,
Association for Higher Education; American Association of Caiveruty
Professors, Cum Laude Society; National Association of Prinespals of
Schools for Girls; Council for Basic Fducation.

THREE glorious years as an impecunious teacher and a sametines
administrator at Ruston Academy, Havana, Cuba, were temporarniv
interrupted in late 1941 by a wonderful honeymoon with her
whom I could never do without and permanently in toga by bese
romantic travel abroad (mostly on the LST 968) for Unele Sam's
health. A year with Pan American World Airways after Worl
War IT left me “up in the air” and I joined the Firse Nanienal Bonk
of Boston, This austere institution, exercising the wisdom of the
venerable, exported me as rapidly as powible te their operates

[1341]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

KURT FREDERICK VOGT

 

IME ADDRESS: 1424 Breezeridge Drive, St. Louis, Mo. 63131.

2EPARED AT: Humanistisches Gymnasium, Erlangen, Bavaria, Germany; Scott
High School, North Braddock, Pa.

ZARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: $.B., cum laude, 1940.

arrieD: Lois A. McKay, May 6, 1942. cHitpreN: Charles Frederick, April 19,
1950; George Albert, Dec. 3, 1951; Jay Woodworth, Sept. 5, 1955.

cupaTioN: Marketing executive.

-FICES HELD: First vice-president, Young Men’s Board of Trade of New York
City; director, Harvard Club of New York; treasurer, Ellison Park
Heights Association; president, Karl Vogt Foundation.

EMBER OF: Harvard Clubs of New York and St. Louis, American Marketing
Association; Boy Scouts of America; Harwood Hills Association; Cool
Dell Bath and Tennis Club.

sBLIcATIONS: Number of articles for trade journals in the medical and dental
fields.

N looking back, one inevitably discovers a theme one has know-
gly or subconsciously pursued in the development of his business
areer — mine is best described by the phrase “medical equipment
arketing.”

As the years progressed, the role I found most rewarding in a large
ompany like Air Reduction and a smaller firm like Ritter is that of
varketer to the healing professions. It has been an interesting
hallenge to take an active part in fostering the development and
istribution of ever more complex devices to diagnose and treat the
ck and wounded. One of the least heralded but most dramatic
vents 1 was closely associated with was speeding up the humble
ental drill from 8000 to 250,000 revolutions per minutes, thereby
xpediting dental procedures and substantially reducing the pain so
ong associated with dentistry.

I have had the great pleasure of working with prominent men in

[ 1344 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

tives. Suffice it to say that the Foundation is interested in establish-
ing educational grants for financially handicapped young men who
appear to have the qualities of business leadership, whose standards
of ethics, strength of character, integrity, dedication to sound
professional business principles can in great measure determine the
future of our system of private enterprise. To date, funds are still

inadequate for the scholarship and sponsorship program outlined by
the Foundation, but we are gradually getting there.

GEORGE HOLLISTER WADSWORTH

 

HOME appress: R.F.D. 2, Woodbury, Conn.

OFFICE apprEss: Scovill Manufacturing Co., 99 Mill St., Waterbury, Conn.
PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.B.A., 1942. .
MarRIED: Lili Beatriz Fstol, Jan. 5, 1945. CHILDREN: Janet, May 17, 19465 Wil-

liam Merrick, Jan. 31, 1948; Isabel, May 5, 1949; George Estol, Dec. 6,
1953-

HARVARD BROTHER: Charles Congdon Wadsworth, '42, M.B.A., “47.

occupation: Manufacturing; group vice-president, responsible for international °
operations.

OFFICES HELD: Comptroller, 1958-62, group vice-president, 1962, Scovill Manu-
facturing Company; director, Waterbury National Bank; trustee, Water-
bury Hospital, national director, 1958-59, 1961-63, National Association of
Accountants; member, 1958-62, chairman, 1961-62, Woodbury Board of
Education.

MEMBER OF: Waterbury Club; University Club of New York; Appalachian

Mountain Club; Financial Executives Institute; National Association of
Accountants.

PUBLICATIONS: Various articles in N.A.A, Bulletin,

COLLEGE was immediately followed by Harvard Business School
and that immediately by the US. Navy. In between destroyer duty

| 1346 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

GEORGE PARKER WAHN

 

[E appRESS: 70 White Oak Rd., Waban, Mass. 02168.
CE ADDRESS: 450 Western Ave., Boston, Mass. 02135.
ARED AT: Roxbury Latin School, West Roxbury, Mass.
'$ IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

niED: Maria Elsa Schroeder, May 6, 1942. CHILDREN: Elizabeth Mary, Jan.
10, 19434, George Henry, May 17, 1946.

PATION: President and treasurer, George H. Wahn Company, distributor
of electrical supplies and equipment.

ES HELD: Chairman, Blood Committee, since 1957, Fraternity Lodge, AF.
: A.M., Newton; Disaster Services, since 1963, Newton Red Cross.
BER OF: Harvard Club of Boston; Ancient & Honorable Artillery Com-

any of Massachusetts; Society of American Magicians; Museum of Fine
.rts, Boston,

nticipation of a year of compulsory military duty, I enlisted in
Aassachusetts National Guard, October, 1940, and was inducted

-ederal service, January, 1941. My “year” of active duty ended
three months later in March of 1946.

t prior to induction, I became engaged to the girl who ac-
anied me at Commencement. We were married a year and a
ater — May, 1942.

> following month (June, 1942) I was sent to Infantry School
7as commissioned a lieutenant in September. In the European
re of Operations I served in various communications zone
ties until the Battle of the Bulge, at which time I was forwarded
: combat zone as a rifle platoon leader in General Patton’s
_ Six weeks later, wounded in action, 1 was back in England
en to New York, arriving Easter Sunday, April 1, 1945.
separation from the service, | went to work for my father and
ded him as head of the company at his death in 1954.

[ 1348 ]



HARVARD CLASS OF 19.0

HYMAN WALDMAN

 

press: 65 Cleveland Rd., Chestnut Hill 67, Mass.
press: 1464 Commonwealth Ave., Boston 35, Mass.
» aT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.
COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1940.
Claire Hayes Rice, Nov. 6, 1945. cuttp: Ellen Jo, Feb. 15, r951.
on; Physician; M.D., 1944.
or: American Medical Association; Massachusetts Medical Society;
‘ican Academy of General Practice.

I graduated from Harvard College twenty-five years ago,
tain that when the time came to submit this report, it would
quite unnecessary since my name would have become a
| word. Unfortunately, my vision of the future did not
e and I am forced to take pen in hand and tell you how |
“0 avoid fame and fortune.
anned to become a tycoon; I became a physician. I had
’ marry a movie star; [ married a school teacher. I had
sire five sons; I sired one lovely daughter. I had planned
nes in Cannes, Palm Beach, Newport and Palm Springs;
home in Chestnut Hill, Massachusetts, and a certain
k, I fear, would dispute the word “own.” I had also
keep my figure, my hair and my teeth; I have, instead,
ity-five pounds, lost three fourths of my hair and been
om a few molars, Also, I'm forced to admit that as the
dad spill on the tennis court, my legs are no longer a

This has not kept me from spending every possible
t at the Newton Squash and Tennis Club;
ch less formidable an Opponent,

last thought to air, When | graduated from Harvard

[ 1352 ]

it has merely

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

College twenty-five years ago, middle age seemed a million years
away; I’m amazed at how fast a million years whizzed by.

JOHN ADAN WALDO

 

HOME AppREss: 25 Allen Rd., Swampscott, Mass.
OFFICE ADDRESS: % Bureau of Chronic Disease Control, 170 Morton Sc, Boston,

Mass. 02130.
PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 19.40.

UNMARRIED.
OCCUPATION: Administrative officer, Bureau of Chronic Disease Control, Dive

sion of Adult Health, Massachusetts Department of Public Health,
MEMBER OF: American and Massachusetts Public Health Associations,

FACED with what will undoubtedly be the far more substantial and
interesting reports of the many famous and certainly mere Uverieus
members of the Class, I prefer to remain modestly silent. even if
the latter were false.

[1353]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ALBERT LADD WALDRON, JR.

 

appress: 8211 Westhill Drive, Lake Lucerne, Chagrin Falls, Ohio 44022,
Appress: Glidden Co., 11001 Madison Ave. Cleveland, Ohio 44102,

‘p aT: University School, Cleveland, Ohio.

¥ COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

»; Betty Ruth Thomas, Aug, 25, 1942. CHILDREN: Richard Thomas, May
1945; William Ladd, April 8, 1949.

1oN: Industrial salesman — coatings and resins.

4eLD: Central industrial sales manager, Glidden Company, 1953-59.

. twenty-five years have slipped by quickly. While I have
Cambridge just twice since graduation, I often think of those
ars and what they have meant to me.

Jarvard degree had much to do with my having a choice of
ood jobs when I returned to Cleveland in 1940. Luckily, I
nade a good choice, for my work with Glidden has always
ied and rewarding. Like many of us in the mercantile
lese) end of things, I often think I would eventually prefer
tic and more objective career such as teaching or social
fer the children are educated, I keep telling myself.

d’s major contribution to my life has been the awareness I
there of the importance of intellectual endeavor, of the
cep up with our rapidly changing times through study,
nd participation. Without this, it is easy to become
in the pursuit of a livelihood.

ret that I did not attempt to influence my sons to attend
[here was never any question where I would go after my
: me to his 25th Reunion in Cambridge in 1927. Who
‘free peanuts, pop (or is it still called tonic?), a grown-
it and a ninth inning homer by Izzy Zarakov that clob-

[ 1354]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

bered Yale? Nevertheless, a degree from almost anv college is a
must for my sons. I say “any college,” because I think that most of
our lesser known institutions have responded admirably to enroll-
ment and to the vastly expanded knowledge that youngsters must
cope with today.

Politically, I accept, for the most part, a greater role by govern-
ment in our lives. Living in a nuclear age and contending with the
awesome advances in scientific and social knowledge scem to re-
quire continued government sponsorship and leadership. I beheve
that integration is our most important national problem, that. some-
how, we must all strive to recognize that our double standard of
citizenship is not right.

Finally, I salute with sadness and reverence the memory of our
many classmates who have given their lives for our country, and I
extend my sincere wishes for continued success and happiness for
our esteemed Class of 1940.

ANDREW MOSS WALES

 

HOME ApprEss: Blueberry Lane, Lincoln, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Brown-Wales Co., 165 Rindge Ave., Cambridge, Mass

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREE: $.8., cum laude, 1940,

MARRIED: Betty Janet Roth, Aug. 14, 1943. cHmpren; Roger Maron, Bebo 4,
1946; Philip M., Aug. 15, 1947.

HARVARD SON: Roger Martin Wales, *68.

HARVARD BROTHER: William Quincy Wales, 738

occupaTION: President and treasurer, Brown-Wales Company, steel wrene
center.

oFrrices HELD: Member of corporation, Lesley College, Cambridge, tre aouree,
Students House, Boston,

[ 1355 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

memer oF: Brae Burn Country Club; Annisquam Yacht Club; H
Club; Harvard Club of Boston; Rotary; Massachusetts Sicign n Facul

Newcomen Society of North America; American Iron &

y of CPA's;
Sports Car Club of America.

Steel Institute;
SINCE graduation I was first gainfully employed in accounting
both public and industrial, Then the U.S. Navy took over, for
almost five years. Being among the first in — an eyewitness to Pearl
Harbor —I was also among the first out, after having seen most of
the Pacific north of the equator. Since the war, I have been with the
present company for all but the first year.

My wife came from San Francisco, but has found life in this area

uite enjoyable, except for the winter weather. I agree with her

wholeheartedly. We try to escape this with an occasional trip to a
warmer climate.

Ungainful employment consists of boating, some sports Car ac-
tivities and a mediocre game of golf, bridge or poker.

EVERETT PAINE WALKLEY

 

HOME Appress: Wildcat Road, Delafield Island, Darien, Conn.
oFFice aporess: Mobil Petroleum Company, Inc. 150 E. q2d St, New York,
NY.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE! A.B., 1940,

marriep: Rebecca Pagan Davis, May 15, 1943, critpren: Edward Ingersoll, 2d,
March 16, 1945; Peter Fayssoux, July 19, 1948; Anne Fayssoux, Sept. 19,
1953-

occupation: Compensation and employee benefits adviser — international af-
filiate of Socony Mobil Oil Company.

OFFICES HELD: President, Delafield Island Association, 1
(illinois) Visiting Nurse Association & Health C

[ 1356]

962, 1964-65, Wilmette
enter, 1955-57, Western

ee et MIE
we mang engreanes HE

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Alumni Association of Phillips Exeter Academy, 1954-56; treasurer, Mar-
blehead Taxpayers Association, 1948-51; member, board of governors,
Council of Darien Homeowners Associations, 1961-65; chairman, board of
deacons, Wilmette Congregational Church, 1956-57.

MEMBER OF: Noroton Yacht Club.

PUBLICATIONS: Several articles on pension and profit-sharing plans but only as s
ghost writer.

ONE evening late in 1943 while my southern bride of six months and
I were having a drink at the Merry-go-round in the Copley Plaza,
we succumbed to the salesmanship of the fortune teller and had our
palms read. In the course of this exercise the gypsy observed that
my wife liked redheads, and then noticing that we were both blond
added — “and blonds, too.” In my palm she saw much travel
abroad. Being in the U.S. Army uniform I thought she meant I was
going to be “shipped out” but she said no; and she said no to a career
in the diplomatic service. We laughed at our fortunes, paid the bill
and forgot it.

As reported in earlier reunion biographies, I returned to Marble-
head, Massachusetts, after the war and went to work in the life
insurance field. We already had one son who was not a redhead.
He’s grown now. Enroute to becoming a sophomore at Dartmouth,
he went four years to Phillips Exeter and also spent a most fascinat-
ing summer in Tanganyika with Operations Crossroads Africa. He
has inherited his father’s love for crew but has brought to that sport
considerably more physical assets than I ever had.

While in Marblehead our second son was born—a tow-head
blond like his brother. He has struck out on his own, forsaken the
path of his father and brother and gone to Deerfield Academy where
he is now a sophomore. Both he and his older brother are headed for
medicine.

In 1951 we moved across the Charles River, across the Hudson
River, to Chicago. A big move for a New Englander but still not
“extensive travel abroad.” While there our third child was born —
a beautiful redhead whose copper-colored hair is a delight to all wha
know her. This—ten years after our fortune was told. Anne is
eleven now and moving with the greatest of haste into being a teen-
ager.

In 1957 we moved to Darien, Connecticut, when I joined Standard-
Vacuum Oil Company as assistant manager of the Employee Bene tits
Department. Part two of the prophecy thus came truce, for Sanvac
operated in countries whose shores are washed by the waters of the

[ 1357]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

Indian and Pacific Oceans. Most of my trips were taken alone but
they did result in gifts for Becky of brocades and prints from Tokyo,
perfume from Paris, silk saris from Bombay, cashmere sweaters from
London, etched brass pitchers from Karachi.

Following the dissolution of Stanvac, I was transferred to one of
Stanvac’s parent companies, and there continued my travels. The
highlight in the period was an exciting nine months when we all
lived in Nairobi, Kenya, while that country was pressing for its
independence. The company’s sphere of operations there covered
all of the eastern corner of the African continent, including East
Africa, Ethiopia, the delightful(?) port of Djibouti, French Somali-
land and the hot, blowy, sandy, craggy port of Aden. In the middle
of it all, Becky and I managed a trip to Hong Kong, Bangkok and
Bombay — business of course. Our homeward journey to the U.S.
included stops in Johannesburg, Brazzaville, and Paris.

For the past year I've been land bound; I long to take flight again,
Now, caught up in the complexities and uncertainties resulting from
anti-trust suits, corporate mergers and reorganizations, the recom-
mendations of management consultants, the course of my career
bending toward what I'm not sure, I'm looking for that palmist to
tell me what the next twenty-five years hold.

Maybe I won't try too hard to find her. It has been a good twenty-

five years; I've been richly blessed by wife, children and experience.
I'd better leave well enough alone while I am ahead.

EDWARD MARTIN WALL

 

HOME appreEss: 27 Outer Drive, Westover AFB, Mass
oFFice Appress: Chief, Procurement Division, Fi

over AFB, Mass. ghth AF, S.A.C, USAF, West-

[ 1358 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LL.B. 1933(49)3 AM. (George
Washington Univ.), 1963.

MarRIED: Mary Elizabeth Spall, May 10, 1945. cHitoreN: Charles Vincent, Dee.
17, 1947; Michael John, Nov. 30, 1948, Edward Martin, Jan. rg. saga.
David Stanley, Aug. 9, 1959-

OCCUPATION: Lieutenant colonel, U.S. Air Force; chief, Procurement Div rnion,
Eighth AF., S.A.C., USAF.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Bars of the District Court of the District of Columbsa,
Circuit Court for the District of Columbia and the U.S, Supreme Court.

MEMBER OF: American and Federal Bar Associations, American Associaton of
University Professors, Air Force Association; Armed Forces Management
Association; Daedalian Society.

WHILE an undergraduate at Harvard I took a year of Army ROTC
and also gained a pilot’s license in the Civil Pilot Training Program.
Thus in December, 1941, I did not have much choice but to leave
Harvard Law Schoo] and join the Army Air Forces Aviation Cadet
Program. During the war I spent time in anti-submarine warfare
and bomber operations with the Eighth Air Force in England. My
last scheduled mission resulted in a nylon letdown and a share
vacation in a POW camp in Germany. After getting out of con-
finement, I went to England and married the girl I was thinking
about when I was thinking what a waste it would be co ect killed,

After the war I remained in the Army Air Force but managed to
go back to Harvard Law School to get my LL.B. A tour asa legal
officer in the Judge Advocate Corps “of the Air Force was cut short
by a decision to continue flying. Since then I have alternated Aving
jobs with tours as a professor of air science and as a contracting
officer.

My wife and I have not accumulated much worldly wealth, but
we have seen much of the world, have had varied and interesting
experiences, have made many new friends and renewed olf friend:
ships, and have the company of four sons unal the ume when they
can stand on their own. We hope that they will owe as much te ts
as we owe them for their companionship and for the extra Purpenre
and meaning they have given our lives.

I agree with Admiral Rickover that we must keep pace witty
foreign countries in the technological race, but even more unpertane
we must improve the ability of our cducational system to turn eve
people who can think for themselves with clear reason and as char
a grasp of the facts as possible in making their daily fivius. at a.
justing to the pace of change, and in deciding for themoeles oa

[ 1359]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

matters of human morality, human destiny, and social j justice. These
values being subjective are in danger of being lost in a society which
elevates the objective simplicities which can be fed into a computer
and which pretends that the most important things do not exist or
do not matter because they do not lend themselves to computer
thinking. I do not put my faith in indoctrination, however, or the
erection of a total American faith to do battle with the Russian faith.
My faith is in the power of truth — Veritas — the motto of Harvard.

But truth alone will not suffice; there must also be love. This must
concern universities also.

JOHN LOUIS WALLEN

 

HOME AppREss: 4020 S.W. Lee St. Portland, Oregon 95221.

PREPARED AT: Findlay Senior High School, Findlay, Ohio.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: s.B., magna cum laude, 1940; A.M. (Ohio
State Univ.), 1941; a.M. (Harvard Univ.), 1942; pup. (Univ. of Oregon),
1957:

MarrieD: Rachel Winterrowd, Aug. 10, 1941. CHILDREN: Kurt, Oct. 26, 1944;
Kim, Sept. 3, 1947; Anne, April 6, 1953.

occupation: Social psychologist.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, 1957-58, president, 1959-60, member, board
of professional affairs, since 1964, Oregon Psychological Association.

MEMBER OF: American Psychological Association; Society for General Systems
Research; Portland Bach Singers,

PUBLICATIONS: Counseling With Returned Servicemen, co-authored with Dr
Car} Rogers, McGraw-Hill, 1946.

| 1360 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN FRANCIS FILLMORE WARDFR

rE

    

ecg enero gene lag RE |

HOME AppREss: 5018 Love Rd., El Paso, Texas 79922.

PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1936, 1937-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

MarRieD: Winifred Leigh Miller, March 8, 1955. cHipres: Leshe Kathryn,
Dec. 20, 1949 (by previous marriage); Dawn Denise, March 20, 1956,

OCCUPATION: Candy broker; partner; self-employed,

MEMBER OF: Lodge No. 187, B.P.O.E., El Paso, Texas.

WALTER IRVING WARDWELL

  

BRO ORC PREIS Me EE SIRS IE TS ge

HOME ApprEss: 1 Oak Hill Rd., Storrs, Conn.

OFFICE apprEss: Dept. of Sociology, University of Connecticut, Stern, Conan,

PREPARED AT: Wakefield High School, Wakefield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B, Cid laude, tayo, AM, 1ygt, I,
1951.

margigD: Elizabeth True, April 7, 1945. conpaes: Betsy Truc, Oot py poet,
Susan True, Oct. 15, 1948, William True, June at, rygr, Seewen Prue, Vor
28, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: David Otis Wardwell, st-a.a, "42.

[1360 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

occupation: Associate professor of sociology, University of Connecticut,

OFFICES HELD: President, Storrs Parent Teachers Organization, 1957~58, North.
west School Parent Teachers Group, 1958-59, University of Connecticut
Chapter, American Association of University Professors, 1954-55; licuten-
ant colonel, Artillery, U.S. Army Reserve.

MEMBER OF: American Sociological Association; Eastern Sociological Society;
American Association of University Professors, Civil Liberties Union;
United World Federalists; Reserve Officers Association.

pustications: “A Marginal Professional Role: the Chiropractor,” in Social
Forces, 1952, and in Patients, Physicians and Illness, “Social Organization,
Bureaucratization, and the Professions,” in Social Forces, 1955, and in Social
Perspectives on Behavior, “The Extra-Professional Role of the Lawyer,”
American Journal of Sociology, 1956; “Limited, Marginal and Quasi Prac-
titioners,” in The Handbook of Medical Sociology, 1963; “Stress and Cor-
onary Heart Disease in Three Field Studies,” in Journal of Chronic Dis-
eases, 1964.

IMMEDIATELY after graduation I turned down an opportunity
to attend the Business School in order to go on active duty as an
Artillery officer for a one-year tour that lasted nearly six years.
Along with many ROTC classmates, I joined the First Division,
and though reassigned to a tank destroyer battalion accompanied
them to England and North Africa. After D-Day landings at
Salerno and Anzio in Italy, I returned to the United States and spent
my last year of active duty as commandant of the Army Specialized
Training Unit at ‘Tufts College Medical School.

Several major events followed in short order: I got married, the
war ended, and I decided on my future career. In February, 1946,
I returned to Harvard to study sociology in the about-to-be-organ-
ized Department of Social Relations. It was an exciting time to be
there, for the converging behavioral sciences were being explored
creatively by an unusually distinguished group of professors. Leav-
ing in 1949 before completing my dissertation, 1 began to teach at
the University of Connecticut, receiving my Doctoral degree in
1951. Although my interests have recently veered more toward re-
search, I still regard myself as primarily a teacher. My special
interests have been the sociology of the professions and medical
sociology. Currently, 1 am investigating sociological and psycho-
logical factors in the etiology of coronary heart disease.

My family is growing up (all too rapidly) in a pleasant college
community. Betsy began an art major at Cornell this past fall.
Susan is in her junior year at the University High School, which
Bill has just entered as a seventh-grader. Steven, who is in the fourth
grade, is energy personified. My wife Betty is fully occupied in child

{ 1362 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

care and community work. We all are looking forward to spend-
ing the academic year 1965-66 in Glasgow, Scotland, where U shall
devote my sabbatic leave to studying psychological medicine, social
medicine, and cPidemiology with the medical faculty.

Politically, I regard myself as a liberal — more so than when 1
was an undergraduate — but I am not an activist. My affiliauon with
the Army Reserve has made me a lieutenant coloncl and an in-
structor in the Command and General Staff Course in Elartford.
Although university and professional activities occupy nearly all mv
time, music remains important to me, and I have recently become a
duffer on the piano. Squash has lost out in competition with skung,
my consuming interest during the winter months. But just as when
I was a student at Harvard, there are never enough hours in the dav
or days in the year to accomplish all the many things I want to do

and that I enjoy doing.

NELSON MELBOURNE WARNER, JR.

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 9 Shaw Road, Wellesley Hills, Mass. o218¢.

[ 1363 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

LEONARD DOUGLASS WARREN

 

ESS: 7216 Ward Pkwy., Kansas City, Mo.
press: Parkview Drugs, Inc., 6000 Manchester Tfewy., Kansas City,

1: Lower Merion High School, Ardmore, Pa.
ILLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B. 1940.
arbara Sweikert, July 6, 1957. cuiLp: Barbara, 1961 (died the same

Manager of data processing for large drug discount chain.
Harvard Club of St. Louis; St. Louis Opera Guild.

alf of my life which began when I was graduated in
divided into three basic phases, as I now look back upon
‘war and the U.S. Navy which took six years; then my
9d which commanded nine years of my life, and thirdly,
clectronic data processing — the fields which have pre-
endeavors for the last eight years.

dergraduate at Harvard I was one of those perhaps un-

, who did not or could not determine the exact pro-
ication or endeavor to which he could become wholly
vy those of my classmates who, before they finished
were well set upon a specific career, Within months

| in 1940 I was in Naval uniform pursuing the in-
zardous life of a reservist, and by 1946 was dis-
utenant commander, six years older, but also six
5. |

ears | continued to develop and receive great joy
ents of a musical nature, which Harvard so well
oress in the Glee Club and the Pierian Sodality.
ifter leaving the service, I took enough singing

| professional operatic tenor and was well on my

[1304 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

way to such a career when I discovered that, commercially, this was
a very hard way to go, and also that accounting and electronic data
processing were talents of mine which could be better developed
than music as a lifetime career; the latter subject, of course, re-
maining as my beloved avocation.

I married fairly late in life after several years of confirmed
bachelorhood, and believe me, have regretted not a minute of it.
I married a beautiful career woman, took her bodily away from her
work and made her a lowly housewife and prospective mother,
even though we are both deep within our middle age. Neither of
us would have it any other way. We expect our second child this
year (1964).

My years since leaving Harvard have been wonderful. I only
wish I could express here the appreciation for what Harvard showed
me; the things seen there which have influenced my whole life —
only for the better.

THAYER SIDNEY WARSHAW

 

HOME ApDpREss: 18 Willow St., Newton Center, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Haverhill Shoe Novelty Co., 104 Essex Se. Haverhill, Mass
PREPARED AT: Public Latin School, Boston, Afass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940(41).

marriED: Charlotte M. Glagovsky, Jan. 28, 1951.

occupation: General manager, manufacturing.

TIME has wrought a few changes. The skinny, odd-looking rebel
of 1940 has gradually become the overweight, odd-looking con.
formist of 1965. A year of searching, five strange years in uniform,
another of postwar bewilderment — they laid the groundwork,
When the fog eventually lifted, the business world beckoned, and my’

[ 1365 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

time has been filled since with the intricacies of manufacturing. It
is no secret that this is an occupation filled with hazards, anxieties,
hard work and, on occasion, some small satisfactions.

In 1951, marriage — with that rarest of creatures, an intelligent
girl — took me a long step on the road to maturity. I must say she
has been a marvel of patience, and if she has experienced moments
of disappointment or regret, she has been lady enough not to let
them show.

As for daily living, I have no hobbies, like cabinet-making or bee-
keeping, and for physical exercise, I never progress beyond the
annual discussion about working out at some gym or club. Except
for golf. I have played now for many years, and the game is as
baffling to me today as when I first started, and I never improve.
But I enjoy it immensely, in spite of the weird brand I play and
because of the weird crew I play with. In season, it is a definite
factor in my life.

My politics, these days, are simple enough: I can’t see myself as
anything but a lifelong Democrat, and like all good gut liberals, I
bleed every so often. The cultural diet consists mainly of reading
anything and everything that comes to hand, from gift catalogues
to the Evergreen Review; the theatre and the movies as often as
possible; and television which I find relaxing and enjoyable for the
most part and in spite of, etc.

As for the youthful dreams and ambitions, the less said the better.
I am content enough, nowadays, if plans for a simple weekend trip
or next summer's vacation can be seen through, unchanged. In short,
it took only twenty-five years, but I have settled down.

[ 1366 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOHN LARRY WASHBURN

 

HOME ADDRESS: 261 Rockingstone Ave., Larchmont, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: MPO Productions, Inc., 222 E. 44th St., New York, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: International School, Geneva, Switzerland; Hackley School, Tar-
rytown, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

MarRriED: Bedelia Falls, 1941 (divorced 1947); Gloria Patterson, 1949 (annulled
1953); Mrs. Kathleen Patricia Foshay Elliot, t960. cumpren: Mark Ellies,
April 25, 1954; Anne Elliot, Nov. 27, 1955; Margaret Elliot, July 4 19s.
James Gowen, Oct. 26, 1961.

occupation: Motion picture writer-producer; associate produccr, MPO Produc-
tions, Inc.

puBLicaTions: Written, produced and directed numerous film documentarics for
industrial, television and government sponsors. In 1964, “A Moment in
History,” a motion picture I wrote and produced for the National Acro
nautics and Space Administration, was presented by them to the Kennedy
Memorial Library Foundation to be used as a permanent exhibit when the
library is completed. This film covers the events in the Rose Garden of
the White House on April 9, 1963, when President Kennedy declared Sir
Winston Churchill an honorary citizen of the United States, fe alwo gues
behind the scenes to show how the Relay satellite and a four-nation nee-
work of space communication centers were used to carry a live telecast of
the ceremony to Sir Winston's home in London and other viewers
throughout Europe.

CONTINUED from 1960 edition: Produced the play “full of
human values.” It was presented off-Broadway and was called
“Answered the Flute,” written by Sam Robins ‘and starred ( ‘arn
Lynley. Ic failed miserably...

So, where does a beachcomber go,

When no spot is left untrod?

Oh, what does a beachcomber do,

When the earth is run by clods?

[ 1367 ]

__

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

You give up seven years of bachelorhood and lonely beachcomb-
ing on the isle of Manhattan, marry a beautiful widow with three
children and create one more to make it even numbers, write and
produce motion pictures for NASA, join the “world’s most modern
film studio,” move to Larchmont, New York, become a commuter
and launch a project to produce a never-ending series of documen-
tary films presenting “The Great Teachers of This World” ...
that’s what!

My message as of now is: The past with its accomplishments or

failures is a matter of record. The challenge, as always, lies in the
future.

LAWRENCE HARVEY WATERMAN

 

HOME AbpRESS: Town Farm Road, West Wilton, N.H.
PREPARED AT: Arlington High School, Arlington, Mass,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940(41); LLB. (Boston Univ.), 1947.
MARRIED, CHILDREN: Four daughters.

occupation: Lawyer; construction work and real estate operation.

1 HAVE been engaged in the general practice of law from 1949 un-
til 1963 when I moved from the Boston area to Wilton, New Hamp-
shire. Since reciprocity didn’t work in my case, 1 am preparing for
the New Hampshire bar exam this June, some twenty-five years
after entering law school, which is something of a record,

In the meantime | have been briefly engaged in construction work
and real estate operation.

However, I have four wonderful daughters and an indulgent wife
and believe happiness should buy money somehow, and am optimis-
tic about the future of this country.

| 1368 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LOUIS ADDISON WATERS, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 144 Vista del Monte, Los Gatos, Calif. 95030.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of English, San Jose State College, San Jose, Calif.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. cum laude, 1940, aM. (Lehigh
Univ.), 1946; PH.v. (Columbia Univ.), 1961.

MarRiED: Verle Hambleton Raymaley, June 16, 1962. cHmpreN: Bret Ray-
maley, June 29, 1958; William Addison, Jan. 16, 1963.

OCCUPATION: Professor of English and humanities, San Jose State College.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association of America; Sierra Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Idea of Nature in the Poetry of William Blake.”

THE call to give an account of oneself twenty-five years later 1s
like a premature Last Judgment. One knows he has reached middle
age — the age when he realizes he will never be President — but
it is a shock all the same to realize how little one’s life resembles
the young man’s dream. Not that it is unsatisfactory, but the world,
usually regarded as real, is hard put to compete with the stave
settings of the imagination.

Like most of our classmates, I was caught up in the war just
after launching upon a career. Called up to active duty as a Naval
Reserve officer (Intelligence) in June, 1941, I served in Java, Aus-
tralia, and the Southwest Pacific for more than three years, During
our escape from Java by submarine, we survived a depth charge
attack by our own forces. In Melbourne, the cosmopolitan society
then gathered there provided stimulating companionship in eur rare
off-duty hours. Upon returning to this country in 1944. [was
pleased to be assigned an academic task: learning Russian in the
U.S. Navy School at the University of Colorado in Boulder. The
mountain country thereabouts is very attractive, and after aceh-
mating to the mile-high altirude I found I could work and ply

[ 1369 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

harder than ever I could as a lowlander, Our language teachers
were a fascinating assemmblige of expatr ite Russian men and women
who ranged from Peasants to princes,

After ‘the war, recognizing my inability to live by writing I
finished the Master’s degree in i nglish and started work on the
Doctorate. When my partly completed dissertation was duplicated
by another, I seized the excuse co abandon the struggle and took
a “job as professional translator for the government. A year later,
receiving an offer from the University of Florida to inaugurate the
teaching of Russian there, I accepted the opportunity to return to
the more leisurcly academic life. How idyllic the crystalline springs
of northern Florida are! The unexploited ones, that is (they call
them undeveloped). But I found the summers sultry and oppressive,
nor was it any help that [ kept running around like a damn Yankee,

The Korean crisis in 1950 brought me back for two years of active

duty, which I ended with the rank of commander. Rejecting the
idea of a career in the Navy, at a salary laughable to a businessman
but tempting to a teacher, I decided to defy sound judgment, live
off my savings, and try free-lance writing. Unsuccessful at this, I
returned to teaching. One job gave me the feel of the Midwest,
another of the great Northwest. My travels in this country have
been so extensive — all the states except Alaska — that in my mind’s
eve I can see it unrolled like a living map. At Oregon State I was
a member of that English Department portrayed in Malamud’s
roman a clef, The New Life. The coast and mountains of the North-
west are spectacular, but except in summer the endless rain and
gloom are depressing. Seeking work in a mild but sunny climate, I
was fortunate to find it at San Jose State College in California near
to San Francisco, to the Coast, and to the Sierra Nevada. Here I
have taught English and the humanities since 1958.

Accepting the inevitable, I completed my Doctorate at Columbia
in 1961, writing a dissertation on William Blake. The same year
was marked by another happy event, my marriage to Verle Hamble-
ton Ray maley, a young widow whose three-year-old son | adopted.
We have since had another son of our own. Verle has been director
of nurses’ training at San Jose City College. A brave woman, she
has shared my interests to the extent of accompanying me on back-
pack trips to the high country.

Teaching I enjoy, , especially for the opportunity it affords to pur-
sue and to share the life of the mind. Occasionally, I wish it were
more nourishing and I still try to find hours for writing, but most

[ 1370 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

of the time I count me lucky to have truly congenial work. Rarely
“ seeing the harvests he has sown, a teacher often wonders whether
he has accomplished anything, but every now and then a student
kindles and that is reward enough.

In understanding life philosophically, I seem to have made little
progress in twenty-five years, but in breadth and depth of awareness
I sense some modest gains.

DONALD CLARKE WATSON

 

4
Woe aad

HOME ADDRESS: 210 Highland St., Dedham, Mass. 02026.

OFFICE ADDRESS: The First National Bank of Boston, 67 Milk St. Boston, Mass.
02106.

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

marriep: Rosita L. Richmond, Aug. 9, 1942. CHILDREN: Pamela, June @ toss.
Arthur Richmond, Jan. 4, 1946; Donald Clarke, 3d, June 23, 1951; Nathaniel
Fairfield, Aug. 25, 1955.

HARVARD SON: Arthur Richmond Watson, "68.

HARVARD BROTHER: Alexander Wadsworth Watson, '45.

occuPaTIon: Banker, vice-president, The First National Bank of Boston,

OFFICES HELD: Treasurer and trustee, Wentworth Instirute, since tata, trustee,
Provident Institution for Savings, since 1960, Noble and Greenatugh So hel,
since 1960; director, Berkshire Life Insurance Company, since tpte, vee-
president and trustee, Boston Lying-In Hospital, since toa,

MEMBER OF: New Bedford Yacht Club; Cruising Club of America, Somerset
Club; Dedham Country and Polo Club.

LOOKING back on the years that have raced by since college,
simply prompts me to observe that I've been very fortunate and
that life has been thoroughly enjoyable and rew ardiny. N happy
marriage has produced a daughter and three sons, all of whem have

; [1371]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

been healthy and considerably more intelligent than their parents,
My work in a successful and respected organization has been both
interesting and satisfying. It has permitted permanent residence in
a pleasant community among good friends, and the attendant satis-
factions arising from close working associations with local schools
and other useful organizations. It has also afforded enough travel
to other parts of the country to prevent complete provincialism.
Sailing and sailboats have always been my hobbies and our vaca-
tions have been spent on the salt water. More recently, co-owner-
ship of an auxiliary yawl has permitted participation in an increas-
ing number of ocean races —a fulfillment of boyhood ambitions.
The years at Harvard take on an ever-increasing significance as
time goes by, and I am proud to have my eldest son there today.
I have developed a profound respect for the job that continues to
be done by those entrusted with the preservation of the University’s
academic leadership, as well as its traditions. Periodic exposures to
the Harvard atmosphere through working in small ways in its behalf,

or even through attendance on Commencement Day, have always
proved stimulating experiences,

LESTER HOYT WATSON

 

HOME Appress: Point Road, Marion, Mass, 02738,

OFFICE AppRESS: Woods Hole Oceanographic Institution, Woods Hole, Mass.
PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

Marriep: Anne Nagel Sweetser, July 6, 1940. cuitpren: Richard Loring, Jan.
8, 1942; Elizabeth Hoyt, Aug. 3, 1944; Mary Sweetser, May 31, 19473
Douglas Homer, Oct. 5, 1949.

occuPATION: Personnel manager, oceanographic research institution

{ 1372 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MEMBER OF: The Country Club, Brookline, Mass.; Beverly Yacht Club, Marion,
Mass.; Eastern College Personnel Officers.

IN trying to play this game as it is traditionally intended to be
played, I am writing this without having recently reread any of my
previous contributions. Upon graduation I worked for about a
year in the sales end of Pan American World Airways in New
York City. In the late spring of 1941, I volunteered for active duty
in the Naval Reserve and served successively in destroyers, sub-
chasers, corvettes and destroyer-escorts, with command of the last
three types. Also included was a year in liaison duty with the
French Navy. I was released from active duty early in 1946 with
the rank of lieutenant commander and returned to Pan American
for about a year, this time in Boston. A former schoolmate enticed
me to Philadelphia, where I went to work for the foreign division
of Smith, Kline & French Laboratories, drug manufacturers. For
several years I was involved in their European and British Common-
wealth activities, and then became employment manager in their
corporate personnel department. All six of us enjoyed tremendously
some fourteen years in the Philadelphia area, but managed every
summer to get back to New England.

When an opportunity came for me to join the Woods Hole
Oceanographic Institution we headed back without the slightest
hesitation and built a house on family land in Marion. Oceanogra-
phers take some understanding, for theirs is a unique combination
of sciences often considered utterly heterogeneous. There's never
a dull moment, and never a day without learning something new,
for which I’m duly thankful.

Dick has graduated from Penn and is teaching at a small and
very challenging school in upper New York State. Lea ts a juntor
at Boston University, with extracurricular credits as a mountaineer
and national sailing finalist. Molly spent last summer as an Amer
can Field Service scholar in Damascus and is now a senior at Aileon
Academy. Doug is a lower middler at Exeter and the workl’s he
oyster at the moment, which I hope it always will be. Anne's teach-
ing of remedial reading and her active participation in church work
are something more than the words imply, for they have the full.
blown support and enthusiasm of each and every other member
of the family. Together we continue, as a fairly cohesive crew, the
never-ending battle against extremists and planned obsolescence.

[ 1373 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

DWIGHT WILLSON WEBB

 

OME ADDRESS: 337 Harvard St., Cambridge 39, Mass.

FFIcE ADDRESS: Webb Books, Inc., 337 Harvard St., Cambridge 39, Mass.

REPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass,

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cum laude, 1940.

zarrieD: Nancy Locke Mclvor, Sept. 27, 1946. CHILDREN: Alexander Dwight,
May 5, 1952; Patrick MclIvor, June 20, 1955; Sophia Willson, Nov. 30, 1958.

“CUPATION: President and editor, Webb Books, Inc.

[EMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Chequessett Country Club; Wellfleet
Yacht Club,

O here it is. All college-bred Americans know it will come sooner
r later, probably sooner. It is part of the folklore, the first summing
p, the 25th Reunion Report. One’s mind goes back to the books
id stories by Marquand and others constructed about this event.
[ow plausible they seemed when one was twenty. How inadequate
aw. That asked-for list of places, names, honors and employments,
‘hat does it have to do with what one has become? One wonders.
How to go about it anyway? Start with the fall from Harvard
to the workaday world, then the snatching up into the Army, the
ofession in editing and publishing, the happy marriage and the
uldren who bring one up to fatherhood, the two odd middle-aged
issions for small-boat racing and small camera photography, the
rattering of received opinions on the state of society, politics, God
id, finally, the note of hope. No, it is all flimsy, false. It cannot
: done.
There are only a few words, and they are not one’s own:

There is an eternal summer within.

and
From the beginning not a thing is.

[ 1374 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RICHARD CUSTIS WEBSTER, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: 16 Prescott St., Brookline, Mass. 02146.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 1101 Beacon St., Brookline, Mass. 02146.

PREPARED AT: Baltimore City College, Baltimore, Md.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939. DEGREE: M.D., 1943.

MarRIED: Cleo Lambrides, Sept. 29, 1945. CHILDREN: Cassandra Lambndey Oct.
21, 1947; Kathryne Briscoe, May 3, 1951; Martha Custis, July za toss;
Heather Melanie, Feb. 4, 1960.

OCCUPATION: Plastic surgeon.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Budgeting and Allocating Committee, United Com-
munity Services of Greater Boston, 1953-54; member, Pitcairn Quarry
Committee, since 1956; director, Pitcairn Park Sanctuary Committee, since
1956; chairman, Cottage Farm-Brookline Improvement Association, tete-
60; president and director, Art Products Institute for Medical Rewarch,
Inc., 1946-47; member, Massachusetts Medical Benevolent Socicty, ume
1959; member, Advisory Board, Surety Bank & Trust Company, \Wake-
field, Mass., 1964; preceptor for training in plastic and reconstructive we:
gery, 1955-62; councillor, Massachusetts Medical Socicty, to¢}-¢4 wnve
1958, member, executive council, 1959-64, president, ty62-64, Amern an
Cleft Palate Association; president, Massachusetts Society of Plex
Surgery, since 1962; voting member, Massachusetts Hovpital Servwe amd
Massachusetts Medical Service (Blue Cross and Blue Shicld), 1943, tyty,
member, Advisory Board, Greater Boston Chapter, Massachuwtty Avr
ciation of Medical Assistants, 1964; editor-in-chief, Maddlesen East Daitrict
Medical Society Bulletin, 1955-56; chairman, Committee on FP ducaten
1955-56, member, Legislative Committee, 1993-54, Pubhe Welfare Caam-
mittee, 1954-55, Blue Shield Committee, r9g7—g8, Midkllewe Fast Distrat
Medical Socicty,; corporation member, Postgraduate Medeal baveeure
Massachusetts Medical Socicty, 1964.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Plastic Surgery (diplomare, Maw. setts
American Association for the Advancement of Science, Amecwan Cleft
Palate Association; American Geriatrics Society, Amencan Medasl Ae
sociation; American Medical Writers Associations American) Phys care
Art Association, American Society of Plastic and Reconstructive Surgery,

[1375 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Association for American Physicians and Surgeons; Biological Photo-
graphic Association; Boston Medical Library (fellow); John T. Bottomley
Medical Society; Brookline Medical Club; Harvard Club; Harvard Medical
School Alumni Association; Massachusetts Medical Society; Massachusetts
Society of Examining Physicians; Massachusetts Society of Plastic Surgery;
Middlesex East District Medical Society; Massachusetts Eye & Ear In-
firmary Alumni Association, Natural History Society of Maryland (hon-

orary member); New England Society of Plastic & Reconstructive Surg-
ery; North Shore Sport Fishing Club.

pustications: About thirty-five articles in medical journals and five films,
patent relating to illuminated and edge-lighted articles.

COSMETIC plastic surgery becomes ever more challenging for me
as the years go by. As a youngster, art and biology were my two
principal interests, what better way to combine the two?

Even the functional or reconstructive side of plastic surgery re-
quires attention to the factor of appearance; and this latter aspect,
the cosmetic, generally is the most difficult part of the work. ‘There-
fore, I've been fundamentally happy with the choice of career; and
it, of course, is where most of my years have gone.

] married a talented painter and have kept her so busy with the
erratic life of a surgeon and with four daughters that she has had
little time to paint in the last sixteen years. However, the youngster,
Heather, now goes to school and the rest of the Websters hope that
mother Cleo can get back to brush and paints. The three older
daughters are all good sport fishermen. The eldest, Cassandra, just
recently shattered three world records with a shark caught off
Rockport, Massachusetts. All of the Websters are interested in
the sea and spend what time we can away from our work near, or
on, or in it. [ am holder of the world record, all tackle record,

International Game Fish Association, blue shark, 410 pounds, Sep-
tember 1, 1960, world record, 80 pound line test, International Game
Fish Association, blue shark, 410 pounds, September 1, 1960.

My social and political convictions can be briefly summed up by
saving that I regret the trend to the left and do what I can by
example, work and contributions to foster a capitalistic free enter-
prise system. I favor providing incentives or motivations to get the
maximum production capability of each individual out of him for
the enhancement of all in a society. I sincerely believe that a

strongly motivated person working and relaxing “hard”’ is likely to
be far happier than one who is not and does not,

L 1376 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

LOUIS BRANDEIS WEHLE, JR.

 

HOME ADDRESS: Camel Hollow Road, Lloyd Harbor, Huntington, N.Y.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Grumman Aircraft Engineering Corp., Bethpage, N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Lincoln School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940(q1).

maRRiED: Anne Franklin, June 15, 1946. CHILDREN: Nancy Franklin, April 29
1948, Susan Underhill, May 15, 1949; Jonathan Field, April 18, 1953; Robert
Patterson, June 13, 1954.

HARVARD BROTHER: Mark Liddell Wehle, 737.

OCCUPATION: Aeronautical engineer.

MEMBER oF: American Institute of Aeronautics and Astronautics; American
Physical Society; Lloyd Neck Bath Club; The Winter Club.

PUBLICATIONS: A paper on matrix analysis of redundant structures in the
Journal of the Aeronautical Sciences, 1951.

MOST of us live facing forward, striving to fulfill ambitions and
obligations, projecting ourselves into the future, seldom looking
back. Here, at the brink of the Twenty-fifth, we are asked to
examine and report on our back trail, and this requires a new
outlook.

Either I have been lucky or else I am easily satisfied, because I
have stuck with Grumman Aircraft ever since I left Cambridge. It
supplies challenging work in large quantities, and its basic policies
throw a minimum of frustrations in the way of such as I. Thus
there has been little incentive to be a rolling stone, and thereby
furnish copy for this Report. Those who roll from job to job, state
to state, coast to coast are able to acquire a perspective, a panoramic
view of their profession and of their land which we stay-at-homes
must forego. But it is our privilege to know one unie of this
economy in depth, and to have had a hand in shaping it.

Starting in the nuts-and-bolts end of the business (the Grumman

[1377]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

shop), I tried a hand at drafting (I didn’t last), stress analysis (team-
ing on more than a dozen new designs, devising new methods),
nuclear research (experimenting at the Brookhaven reactor for the
Navy). Currently a staff type, I find myself over my head in a
bewildering number of technical areas and products.

Long Island’s North Shore is a summer paradise. There is no
pressure to move off to the seashore for a vacation because we are
already here. The young can splash, frolic, compete, develop, and
so can we. Other regions have their winters and their springs. We
have summer. We six lead a typical exurban life, characterized by
the constant activity of the family transportation system. Sometimes
we regard it as a full, active life; at other times we wonder when
we will ever get caught up.

The human animal is said by anthropologists to be particularly
adaptable, and I am inclined to agree with this statement. He com-
plies with the ever-increasing demands of a growing family in a
growing world; he absorbs the explosive advances of his technology,
and he even maintains his equilibrium in the teeming morass we
call modern industrial management. Although Harvard probably

did its best, I am not sure we were thoroughly prepared for such a
life by our four-year Cambridge interlude.

+ JOHN KIMBALL WEISS

 

BORN: March 25, 1920, New York, N.Y, parents: William Stix Weiss, Ray
Levi.

PREPARED AT: Horace Mann School for Boys, New York, N.Y,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. cum laude, 1940,

Marriep: Phyllis Warner, March 29, 1942, New York, N.Y, CHILDREN: John
| 1378 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Kimball, Jr., Feb. 21, 1944; Karen, April 17, 1945; Robin, Dec. 29, 1948,
Peter, Dec. 26, 1949; Jenifer, March 20, 1952.
piep: April 6, 1958, Midland, Mich.
AFTER college Weiss worked as a reporter on PM, New York City
newspaper, until World War II, during which he served as a major
in the Army Air Force. After the war he returned to P.M as Iegisla-
tive correspondent and political editor. From 1949 until 1951 he was
assistant to the president and secretary of the board of trustees of
the State University of New York and since then had been assistant
vice-president and treasurer of the Fund for the Advancement of
Education. He was survived by his wife and children.

RICHARD HENRY WELLER

 

HOME AppDRESS: 89 Woodbury Rd., Cranston, R.I. o2z905.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Quarters 5-South, Recruit Training Command, Great Lakes
Ill. 60088.

PREPARED AT: Haverford High School, Havertown, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., cu laude, 1940; A.M., 1943.

MarRIED: Eleanore E. Lundgren, Nov. 25, 1939 (divorced 1962); J. Diane
Stanard, November, 1963. CHILDREN: Richard Henry, Jr. Nov. & tyes
(m. Gloria Facchini, May, 1963); Judith E., Oct. 31, 19046; Deborah Toure,
Feb. 24, 1948; Charles Roy, 2d, March 14. 1950; Lawrence Fy Feb. ta tue
GRANDCHILD: Michelle E. Weller, May, 1964.

occupation: Commander, U.S. Navy; currently, exccutive officer, Reeruit
Training Command.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Teachers’ Association, Phi Delta Kappa (honorary edie
cational fraternity); Naval Institute.

DURING the summer of 1940, I worked for the Gulf Oul Company
in Cambridge, decided (prematurely, of course) that there EE was
neither going to satisfy myself nor benefit my fellow man, applied

[ 1379 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

for a fellowship in the Harvard Graduate School of Education, and
spent the academic year and summer of 1940-41 getting an A.M,
in teaching classics. I then was employed as a teacher of Latin and
social studies and as coach by the Park School Corporation, Brook-
line, Massachusetts.

In the late fall of 1942 I accepted a commission as ensign, USNR,
joined a group of “go-day wonders” at Princeton University and,
thus, got personally involved in World War II. I spent the entire
war, ashore and afloat, in some branch of the amphibious forces,
winding up my wartime career as executive officer of an LST. By
December of 1945 I had accumulated my points, I bade good-bye
to my shipmates at Okinawa, meandered back to the States via
Japan, Korea, and the Aleutians, and finally was separated in Boston,
in February of 1946.

Enroute out of the Naval Reserve I applied for a commission,
USN, as a “just in case” measure; then immediately plunged back into
the academic life, courtesy of the G.I. Bill and fellowship aid, with
two semesters at Harvard Graduate School of Education, complet-
ing the residency requirements for a doctorate in educational ad-
ministration and with one semester at the Harvard Law School.

These were the troubled years, a time for decision; yet, the
longer I agonized, the greater became my capacity for indecision.
As a pater familias (expanding rapidly), the whole process was a
luxury I could ill afford. Meanwhile, my application for a com-
mission, USN, had been approved. With the deadline for acceptance
rapidly approaching, I finally said “yes” in March of 1947 and,
thus, cemented an alliance which has endured to the present.

L have not regretted the decision. Navy life has satisfied me; and
sometimes I have satisfied the Navy. 1 have been privileged to live
in most sections of this vast land of ours: San Diego, Monterey, San
Francisco, Mare Island; Boston, Philadelphia, Washington, Norfolk;
Charleston, Jacksonville, Key West; Columbus, Chicago, and Great
Lakes. I have traveled in and around the Pacific Islands, been to

Japan, Korea, and the Philippines; traveled in Europe, the Mediter-
ranean, the Middle East and Africa. The Navy has been generous
with opportunities for study: service schools in San Diego, Glen-
view (Illinois), Key West, Norfolk, and Newport; postgraduate
study at Monterey, Ohio State, and even a brief return to Harvard.
I have had full, satisfying and exacting jobs at sea: operations and
executive officer of several destroyers, operations officer of a guided
missile cruiser, and commanding officer of a destroyer, Shore billets

[ 1380 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

have been meaty and interesting: Navy Secretary to the psy cholog-
cal sciences committee in the office of the Assistant Secretary of
Defense for Research and Development (Pentagon); director ‘of a
division in the Bureau of Naval Personnel, fleet schools officer on
the staff of the commander in charge of fleet training for the Pacitic
area. I served a very satisfying tour as a member of the military's
“peace corps”: as chief of the Navy Section, United States Military
Training Mission to Saudi Arabia, I helped train and direct the
growth of the embryonic Royal Saudi Navy. My years in the
Navy have been stimulating, active and responsive to our nation’s
expanding international role.

In religion, I remain a Methodist; in politics, an independent. My

hobbies are golf, bridge, photography, group sports, and walking
on my hands.

PRESCOTT HAMILTON WELLMAN, JR.

bd

  

HOME aApprEss: P.O. Box 512, Albrook AFB, Canal Zone.

OFFIcE Appress: Hq., U.S. Air Forces Southern Command, Albrook AEB,
Canal Zone.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1939.

MARRIED: Alice Ayers Henry, Sept. tt, 1943. CHILDREN: Prescort PLamilton, ul
Sept. 26, 1944; James Osborn, November, 1946 (died February, tug).
Steven Lloyd, Feb. 3, 1948; Susan Avers, Sept. 2, tyco, Douglas Parkes,
Jan. 15, 1955; Gordon Tappan, May 23, t961,

occupation: Major; Chief, Communications-Flectronics Divison, Military Ae
sistance Directorate, U.S, Air Forces Southern Conmmand. |

MEMBER OF: Institute of Electrical and Electronics Poygincers, American Rade
Relay League; Canal Zone Amateur Radio Association; Amerie an Ob tel
Society; Canal Zone Orchid Society; German Philatelic Sociery.

PUBLICATIONS: Three patents applied for.

[1381 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

PROBABLY the most succinct summation of the past twenty-five
years would be to say that I can’t imagine them being further from
what I might have predicted. Such things as my having five children
with an age spread of four to almost twenty-one; the fact that I have
spent nineteen years to date in the military service and the fact that
I have traveled over a fairly sizable portion of this globe, all would
have appeared to me to be absurd back in June, 1939, when Harvard
and I parted company. I have found life and the world fascinating
and frustrating, boring and busy and happy and heart-rending as
well as many things in between. But, above all, I can honestly say I
have rarely lacked for an interest or hobby and had I one hundred
more years to live I couldn’t begin to do all the things I still want to
do. My work has alternated between engineering and both the
technical and artistic side of production for stage, radio and tele-
vision.

My present job has in common with most of my past ones the fact
that it is quite different from anything I have done before. Yet it is,
perhaps, one of the most interesting. I have had the opportunity to
travel extensively in Latin America, leaving behind a barely dis-
cernible trail of abominable Spanish, and I have had occasion at one
time or another to meet quite literally both the cat and the king. The
result of these wanderings has been the unshakable conviction that
the vast majority of “Norteamericanos,” both high and humble,
have a tremendous misconception of our Latin friends and neighbors.
And, I'm afraid, this could be extended to much of the rest of the
world. Having been witness to several headline-making events over
the past years which I have subsequently read about in the United
States press I can understand many of these misconceptions since it
is very obvious that the hunger of the United States public for
action and the need for selling publications greatly overweigh any
tendency to tell the plain, unvarnished truth in most cases. But
enough of this.

Less than two years remain of my military career and I'll be
tossed out into the unsheltered world which, I must admit, I much
prefer. The pleasure of slugging it out on a dollars and sense basis
has always appealed to me. The current thinking is to set up a
base of operations in the Central Florida area and, for a change, stay
as close to home as possible. My retirement pay from the Air Force
should make it possible to pick my work for its personal interest and
satisfaction rather than on a purely monetary basis,

One of my great regrets is that I will be unable to be at the

[ 1382 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Twenty-fifth. I remember my father’s well and I had been looking
forward to it for many years. However, the shipping cost of a
family the size of mine is greater than I can meet, so I must take this
method of saying “Hello” to my many good but largely long-lost
friends of the Class of 1940. I'll be eagerly waiting for the chance to
read about you!

JOHN CORSON WELLS

 

HOME ApDpRESS: 87 School St., Belmont, Mass. 02178.

OFFICE appREss: Cohen Arts Center 7-B, Tufts University, Medford, Mass.
02155.

PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newtonville, Mass.; Governor Dummer
Academy, South Byfield, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B., ctim latide, 1940; A.M.. to42, PUD.

1952.
MarriED: Marie Frances Smith, Dec. 28, 1942. CHILD: Peter Seyfried, Oct. 9,
1948.

OCCUPATION: College teaching; professor of German.

OFFICES HELD: Secretary-treasurer, 1955-58, Vice-president, 1958-60, Boston
Chapter, American Association of Teachers of German, treasurer, Boy
Scout Troop 317, Belmont.

MEMBER OF: Modern Language Association; Mediaeval Academy of America,
American Association of Teachers of German; American Association of
University Professors; Schlaraffia Bostonia; Association for Machine Trans
lation and Computational Linguistics; Belmont Community Chorus.

PuBLicaTions: Articles on Old High German vocabulary and lexicography.

AT graduation I turned over one leaf in the course catalogue, and
changed my specialty from geology to German. After receis ing
the A.M. degree in 1942 I served in the vast motley of the Arm
Air Forces as instructor in cryptography, While so employed
married the girl I had met in 1941 at Middlebury Summer Language

[ 1383 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

School in Vermont. After holding a teaching fellowship in German
at Harvard and receiving the Ph.D., I spent the year 1952-53 ona
grant from the German Federal Government, with my family, in
Freiburg in the Black Forest region, also visiting France, Spain —I
mastered Spanish in one week and forgot it the next — and Switzer-
land. Back home we were the first folks on our block to own a
Volkswagen.

For work on German activities connected with local radio broad-
casting and with the secondary schools I received the Verdienstkreuz
Erster Klasse of the Deustches Bundesrepublik. At present I teach
the German language and literature at Tufts University; my good
wife does the same at Simmons College. Our son Pete surpassed us
both in stature before he was fifteen years of age. He is in many
ways less a plodder than his Dad, who used to go out for cross-
country, whereas he has already made his school letter in the
hurdles.

An unspectacular scholarly life and I seem to be suited to one
another. Inspired not a little by Harvard teachers of my later under-
graduate and graduate years, I have followed the career of a Ger-
manist, professing a special knowledge of the growth and classic
phases of the German language and literature. In particular I have
toiled over the early records of the language; it appears that shortly,
with the help of digital computers, I shall share in solving the rather

baffling problem of indexing the thousands of Old High German
interlinear glosses,

+ HERBERT FRAZER WELSH

   

porN: May 9, 1918, Philadelphia, Pa. parents: Herb ;
Lavinia Borden, ert Stanley Welsh, ’o4,

[ 1384]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; S.M., 1941.
HARVARD BROTHER: Richard Stanley Welsh, ’44.

piED: July 15, 1963, near Newport, N.H.

WHILE at college Welsh was a member of the Band, Radio Work-
shop and Winthrop House crew and dramatics club. After receiv-
ing his S.M. degree he was employed by Pan American Airways as
an aero-engineer for a number of years. He was an ensign in the
USNR but remained at Pan American Airways under contract
operation. Welsh had not been heard from since the time of our
Fifteenth Anniversary Report when he wrote that he was a project
consultant for Remington-Rand, Inc., in Philadelphia. He was sur-
vived by his mother and brother.

JOHN WHEELWRIGHT WENDELL, JR.

 

HOME AppREss: 37 Garden Rd., Wellesley Hills, Mass. 02181.

OFFICE AppREss: Tileston & Hollingsworth Co., 892 River St., Hyde Park, Mass,

PREPARED AT: Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940,

MarRIED: Nancy-Willard Crompton, Sept. 7, 1944. CHILDREN: Caroline Despard,
July 6, 1946; Nancy Hastings, Aug. 7, 1948; Gwendolen Coolidge, Aug.
16, 1952.

occupation: Paper manufacturing; de-inking plant superintendent (in charge
of plant making pulp from secondary fibers).

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, Laypeople’s Club, Unitarian Society, Welledcy
Hills, 1959; secretary, vice-chairman, chairman, Bay District, New Fre-
land Section, Technical Association of the Pulp & Paper Industry (TAP-
PI), 1958-61; chairman, New England Section, TAPPI, 1961-62, secretary,
Chapaquoit Yacht Club, January, 1963, to January, 1966.

MEMBER OF: Technical Association of the Pulp & Paper Industry, Chapaquot
Yacht Club.

[ 1385 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

PupLications: Contributing author —TAPPI Monograph No. 16, “De-Inking
of Paper”; ; contributing author, Pulp and Paper Manufacture, textbook
now in preparation; “Determining the Cost of De-Inked Pulp,” paper pre-
sented before the Fifth De-Inking Conference, TAPPI, October, 1960.

AS a brand-new graduate, Bird & Son, East Walpole, introduced me
to the half science, half art which is paper making. It soon became
evident (to me at least) that this would be my career. Three and
one-half years of duty with the Air Transport Command rudely
interrupted, and also provided the impetus for changing employers.
After separation, in March of 46, I had the opportunity to start
with Tileston & Hollingsworth Company, Hyde Park, as assistant
mill chemist, and grabbed it. In 1948 our de-inking plant superin-
tendent retired and I was named to replace him. Since then [ have
been happily occupied in coping with the problems involved in pro-
ducing bleached paper-making pulp from high-grade wastepapers.

After the war, my wife Nancy and I rented small houses on the
Wellesley edge of Weston until Gwen, our youngest, arrived.
Needing a larger house we finally found an elderly Dutch Colonia!
in Wellesley Hills, convenient alike to schools and stores. Here we
have stayed since 1953, trying to keep up the house and keep up
with our three girls,

Cally, a Goucher freshman, seems to enjoy the long warm autumns
of the Baltimore area. Nancy and Gwen are struggling through a
school curriculum at least fifty per cent more difficult than any
we had to contend with, Nancy as an eleventh- and Gwen as a
seventh-grader.

Having, as has the rest of the Class, been in our teens during the
Great Depression, Nance and J are both deeply convinced that
people and government should live within their means.

[ 1386 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROBERT LOUIS WENDT

 

HOME appreEss: 1 Hillcrest Lane, Woodbury, Long Island, N.Y. 11797.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Sperry Gyroscope Co., 7 Aerial Way, Syosset, Long Island.
N.Y.

PREPARED AT: Birch Wathen School, New York, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940,

MARRIED: Ruth Elizabeth Munro, May 18, 1946, El Paso, Texas.

OCCUPATION: Engineer; manager, Polaris Division, Sperry Gyroscope Company,
Division of Sperry Rand Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: Vice-president, 1955-57, president, 1958, treasurer, since 1961,
Bonnie Downs, Inc.; president, Engineers Association, 1950-51.

MEMBER OF: Society of Harvard Engineers and Scientists, Institute of Flee-
trical and Electronics Engineers; Green Mountain Club (vice-president,
New York Section, 1953-54, trustee, since 1961); Appalachian Mountain
Club; American Radio Relay League.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on systems engineering in technical books and maga-
zines; two patents on navigational computing devices.

ENFORCED retrospect can be both cheering and painful! I find
that a critical look at the oh-so-quickly spent years since graduation
produces both emotions, with the former the stronger. For example,
my business career has involved many interesting assignments, my
home life has been healthy and happy, and opportunities for travel
have been delightfully frequent. On the other hand, it's hard to
point out any supremely important accomplishments for home or
country, and I often wonder whether more varied jobs or locales
wouldn’t have produced a better or fuller life. In sum, Pm content
with the prospects, but not entirely with the record.

I started painlessly in the business world with a job at the last
World’s Fair in New York, and when that closed down tw enty-
four years ago I moved on to the Sperry Gyroscope Company,
little suspecting that I'd still be there for the next World's Fair, The

[ 1387 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

first decade was spent doing design and product engineering work
on the “black boxes,” big ‘and little, that complicate our military
aircraft. Computing gun “sights and gun turrets for the B-17, gun
fire control systems for the B-29, bombing and navigational systems
for B-47 and B-52, all led me farther from the slide rule and closer
to the conference room.

The rest of my time at Sperry has featured a variety of super-
visory assignments, some in engineering, some in sales and some
(last and best) in managing complete. projects. After “soloing”
with the B-58' s million-dollar bomb-nav system, ’m now in charge
of the navigation system management effort for the Navy’ s Polaris
submarine program. It’s a dynamic project, running at its peak now,
and the flood of technical, administrative and personnel problems
that streams over my desk is endlessly challenging. If the privilege
of having such a fascinating job carries with it the penalty of being
labeled an organization man, that’s a small price to pay!

Such a career has necessarily meant spending most of my working
hours in one building or another on Long Island (except for the time
in numberless trains and planes chalking up 400,000 miles of business
travel), For variety 1 can report on having drawn a brief postwar
year in the Army (drudgery at Forts Lee and Bliss — what a mis-
nomer! ), on vacationing all over the U.S. and Europe, on discover-
ing that an engineer’s union is a political organism much like any
other union, on participation in local civic affairs and, as a most
enduring recreation, on enjoyment of an active outdoor life. Having
been lucky enough to find a wife who was as interested in the
mountains as I, weve done our best to hike from Yosemite to Zer-
matt via Teewinot, Slide and Katahdin. I’m happy to say that the
results have been memorable.

With the relevant past so briefly recorded, and with so much
omitted (yes, we built a house, too!), I can only hope that the
years until retirement will be at least as good to us as the ones

now remembered. 1 know we're looking forward, not backward,
in our daily lives,

[ 1388 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ROGER LIVINGSTON WERNER

  

HOME ADDRESS: 2121 Greenwood, Wilmette, III.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 2800 W. Peterson, Chicago, IIl.

PREPARED AT: Belleville Township High School, Belleville, l.; John Burroughs
School, St. Louis, Mo.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., culm laude, 1940.

marrieD: Hope Applegath, Aug, 31, 1947. CHILDREN: Roger Livingston, Jr. Jan.
19, 1950; John Douglas, Nov. 19, 1953.

occupation: Manufacturers’ representative.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Wooster, Ohio, State House Committee on Educa-
tion; chairman, Primary Education Committee on Foreign Language,
Wooster, Ohio, Public Schools; president, Wooster Sales Executives Club;
member, official board, Wilmette Presbyterian Church; deacon, Wooster
Presbyterian Church.

MEMBER OF: Housewares Clubs of Chicago and Detroit; Harvard Club of Chi-
cago; Northwest Housewares Club, Minneapolis.

THESE past twenty-five years have been good ones — thanks in
good part to four wonderful years at Harvard. There have been,
of course, the problems we all face: the first position after gradua-
tion; the frustrations encountered in reaching onc’s goals. These,
however, aren’t the things I remember first or most often. | have
been blessed with a happy marriage, two fine sons, rewarding ¢x-
periences in the selling profession, good friends, good health, and
a faith that has helped me in times of trouble.

After graduation I joined Rubbermaid, Inc., and lived in Wooster,
Ohio (near Akron), for approximately a year before returning to
the Business School. Within one year T was called into the Navy
and served in staff positions on the Statf of Commander Ai Force
Pacific Fleet and the Aviation Supply Otlice in Philadelphia. After
four years in service I returned to Ohio and Rubbermaid for a year
and then moved to Chicago, where for ten years Twas a manu.

[ 1389 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

facturers’ representative selling Rubbermaid and several other hard-
ware-housewares items, Then followed five years in management
at Rubbermaid in Wooster, Ohio (as divisional sales manager and
director of market development). [I returned to Chicago and a
partnership in one of the largest manufacturers’ representative firms
in the Midwest, the Fred Edelston Company.

Outside of business my principal interest is my family. I have
been active in Indian Guides, Scouting, coaching neighborhood
teams, etc. Summertime finds us all on Tobin’s Island in the Muskoka
Lakes district of Ontario. Here swimming, boating, sailing, cottage
repairs, etc., are joys we all share. We pursue cultured interests
together as a family. And we enjoy traveling to historical points
to relive our country’s past. Second in my outside interests is com-
munity activity, including active church work (teacher, member
of the official board of the church), community activity in the field
of education (president of the PTA, committee work with the
Board of Education), and political activity in the Republican Party
(with some ticket-splitting where my conscience dictates).

If the past has been good to me, and I believe it has, I expect the
future will also. I am disturbed by the current attempt to label
people as far right or left, ultra-conservative or dangerous radical,
but believe that common sense and intelligence will prevail as it has
in the past. Harvard taught me not to look for pat answers, and
I intend to continue to seek the truth, at the same time recognizing
that diversity has made our nation great. I believe that all of us

working together, respecting each other’s point of view, can create
an even better tomorrow for all to enjoy.

| 1390 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

SHEFFIELD WEST

 

HOME ADpDRESS: Smithtown Bay Road, Excelsior, Minn.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Wright & West, 930 Northwestern Bank Bldg. Minneapolis,
Minn. 55402.

PREPARED AT: Blake School, Minneapolis, Minn,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; LLB. (Univ. of Minnesota),
1947.

MarRieD: Jane Dobson, June 12, 1942. CHILDREN: Lois Tupper, July 31, toes.
John Dobson, Oct. 11, 1946; Rodney Mort, Jan. 13, 1948; Susan Shetticht,
Nov. 30, 1949; Gretchen Sears, Oct. 20, 1957.

OCCUPATION: Partner, Wright & West, law firm.

OFFICES HELD: Vestryman and warden, Trinity Church (Episcopal); trustee
and vice-president, St. Barnabas Hospital; member of Bishop and Council
for Diocese; director of several corporations; trustee, St. James School,

‘ trustee, The Episcopal Foundation, University of Minnesota, tnistce and
president, Blake School, trustee, Woodhill Country Club.

MEMBER OF: American Bar Association; Minneapolis Club, Woodhill Country

Club.

AFTER graduation I spent nine uninspired months as a trainee in a
paper mill on the Canadian border until I was rescued by the Drate,
then nearly five years in the Service with the last two vears in
England as a navigator and later group training officer in the F iwheh
Air Force. At the time, the five years scemed endless, and P was
tempted to throttle the well-wishers who kept tclling me what a
wonderful experience I was having. In retrospect, it was a wonder-
ful experience. At least I think that I gained some marcurity and
maybe some purpose and direction, Anyway, during this period {
made the decision to go to law school, w hich is a decision I certainly
do not regret. I graduated in December of to47, just before cur
third child was born but after having my oldest child warn me
several times at breakfast that I was going to be “lite for school”

[ 1391 ]

ed

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

For the first eight years of practice I was with a law firm con-
sidered fairly large by Minneapolis standards. In 1955 1 joined, or ]
suppose formed, a new firm in which there are now eight men, I
enjoy the practice, mostly corporate and tax work, the closer, less
formal relations, and admittedly it’s more fun to be a boss.

In 1942 1 married Jane Dobson whom I had known from child-
hood. Our two oldest are now in college; Tupper (twenty) at
Goucher, and Dobson (eighteen) at Williams. The other three are
still at home.

Like other parents of this generation, we seem to have become
completely involved in our children’s lives. I don’t know whether
this modern-day involvement helps or hurts the children, but as
parents we are going to experience a horrible adjustment when they
leave us.

We live in the country — about ten acres on Lake Minnetonka —
twenty-five miles from my office in Minneapolis. I don’t mind the
driving, particularly during these years when I drive one or more of
the children to their schools in town. By the time they have
finished school, I will probably have reached the age when it’s an
accepted thing to talk to yourself. | .

I engage in the usual community activities and fund-raising proj-
ects, Without any question my most consuming and rewarding
experience is serving as president of the trustees of Blake, the
country day school which I attended and which my sons have at-
tended. We are now concluding a capital fund drive for which we
have raised $2,100,000 and are starting our current annual giving
drive with an increased goal of $90,000.

Living in Minnesota and ona Jake, we do our vacation traveling in
the winter, usually to Arizona in March. We have taken two trips
to Europe, once with the two older children, and are looking for-
ward to a similar trip in 1966 with the next two, I play quite a little
golf, with decreasing yardage and increasing handicap, a minimum
amount of family tennis, and I spend most weekends in the fall
duck hunting. Every year I become more positive, and provincial,
in the conviction that this is the only place to live.

Politically, I seem to have become less conservative with the years

and certainly less positive. In the last election, 1 weasled for several
months and ended up with a “write-in.” Althou

port Goldwater, I am concerned about public

gh I couldn’t sup-
sibly more by the calloused way in which we

morality, and pos-
seem to accept and

| 1392]

HET A

seca seven stngeomaeeipncery Reem HN

Srey ae AP

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

expect from others something: less than the bright, shining principles
of our youth.

I wonder how many other members of the Class of 1940 feel as un-

comfortable and fatuous on reading their histories as I do about
mine.

HARRIS KEMPNER WESTON

ELI ECTS RET ern cc eR Na ee Paro spe q

NER RARE RRR OE IS OS HRN LE

   

HOME ADDRESS: 565 Woodbrook Lane, Cincinnati, Ohio 45215.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dinsmore, Shohl, Barrett, Coates & Deupree, 12th Floor,
Central Trust Tower, Cincinnati, Ohio 45202.

PREPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; LL.B., magna cum
laude, 1943 (46).

MARRIED: Alice Frieder, April 23, 1949. CHILDREN: Carol Judith, April 4 1951;
Barbara Lee, March 23, 1953; Virginia Kempner, Nov. 8, 1955.

occupation: Lawyer; partner, Dinsmore, Shohl, Barrett, Coates & Deupree.

OFFICES HELD: Director, Harvard Club, 1951-52, Harvard Law School Associa-
tion, 1949-50; director, since 1950, vice-president, since 1950, City Char-
ter Committee; director, 1960-62, vice-president, 1961, president, to6z,
Queen City Association; director, 1951-57, Secretary, 1955-56, president,
1957, Losantiville Country Club; vice-president, Associated Jewish Agen-
cies of Cincinnati, since 1963; director, since 1958, campaign chairman,
1963, Jewish Welfare Fund of Cincinnati; trustee, Jewish Hospital, since
1958; director, Southern Ohio Region, since 1951, co-chairman, since 1963,
National Conference of Christians and Jews; secretary, 1960-61, treasurer,
1962, Ohio Valley Tennis Association.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club; Harvard Law School Association; University Club;
Losantiville Country Club; Queen City Association; American, Ohio and
Cincinnati Bar Associations; Cincinnati Lawyers’ Club,

AFTER graduation from college, 1 moved a couple of hundred
yards to the Harvard Law School, where I put in two vears of study,

[ 1393 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

holding the local Draft Board at bay for the last six months of that
period. I then enlisted in the Army Air Force in July of 1942, at
Patterson Field near Dayton, Ohio, After basic training there, the
personnel department, or the computers, selected me to go to the
west coast, but then very promptly reversed their field and sent me
back to the east coast as the stopping-off place before a journey to
England on the Queen Elizabeth. For this journey, the Queen had
been converted from its previous status as a luxury liner, and eight-
een of us were in a stateroom originally intended for two! The
food also bore little resemblance to the prewar fare usually served
but, nevertheless, all of us got to England in good health.

I spent approximately a year in England doing clerical and ad-

ministrative work with an air service squadron which was doing its
best to keep B-26 Medium bombers flying for the gth and 8th Air
Forces, During this year I was privileged to spend a week at Ox-
ford taking a specialized course for members of the various allied
forces who were located in England at the time. Even during the
war, great care and attention were lavished on the lawns and gar-
dens at Oxford, and it is truly a beautiful and delightful spot.

Toward the end of 1943, I came back to the United States to at-
tend Officers Candidate School at Miami Beach, graduating in the
spring of 1944, and then fought the rest of the war in South Caro-
lina. I was discharged from the service in fall of 1945, and just had
time to return to Harvard Law School to enter the fall term. I
graduated in June of 1946.

After graduation, I was fortunate enough to be selected by Mr.
Justice Harold H. Burton, of the U.S. Supreme Court, to serve as his
law clerk for a year. That year was a fascinating one, combining
hard work, contact with a number of interesting and important
people, and the feeling, even if not the reality, of participating in
important decisions affecting the United States, This year of govern-
ment service, and contact with others who were also in the govern-
ment, encouraged me to devote a certain part of my time to public
service of some type. After discussing the matter with Mr. Justice
Burton, he suggested that the best procedure was to return to
Cincinnati and establish roots there. 1 followed this advice.

Thus, in the fall of 1947, 1 began a pattern of life which has
remained basically unchanged since that time. I became associated
with my present law firm, and became a partner of the firm in 1957.
The firm engages in the general practice of the law, and our prac-

tice has grown and changed with legal developments over this

[ 1394 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

period of time. To satisfy my desire to make a contribution to the
public benefit, I have participated in civic, charitable and govern-
mental activities in Cincinnati.

In 1949, I married and began the other important phase of my life,
raising a family. That family now consists of three daughters, who
are interested in tennis and music, a varicty of pets which has in-
cluded some dogs in the past and which now consists of two cats, a
white rat, a white mouse and a horse. Interestingly enough, the cats
pay no attention to either the mouse or the rat.

For recreation, I have continued to play tennis and squash, and
have also taken up sailing and, more recently, skiing. My wife joins
enthusiastically in all of these sports, except for squash, and the
children also participate with varying degrees of enthusiasm and
skill. The horse is primarily for the children, but occasionally they
let my wife and me ride it.

Upon reflection, it seems astonishing that twenty-five years have
passed since graduation. Attention to day-to-day and year-to-vear
tasks puts emphasis on current problems and decisions, and it is only
when an occasion of this nature arises that one has his attention
called to the period of time that has elapsed. With the obvious and
terrible exception of World War II, there has been a good deal of
progress in the world in the last twenty-five years, and I hepe and
expect that there will be even more in the next twenty-five years.

HARRY ELI WHITE

 

MAILING ADpRESS: 4701 Larkwood, Woodland Hills, Calif.

[ 1395 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.0

JOHN TRAVERS WHITE

 

OME ADDRESS: 3007 Fontenay Rd., Shaker Heights, Ohio 44120.

FFICE ADDRESS: Climax Metal Products Co., 13402 Glenside Ave., Cleveland,
Ohio 44110,

2EPARED AT: University School, Shaker Heights, Ohio.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

“ARRIED: Virginia Horn, Oct. 3, 1942. CHILDREN: Carolyn Ferris, April 17,
1944; Catherine Travers, June 27, 1946; John Travers, Jr., July 7, 1947;
Virginia Horn, June 19, 1953.

SCUPATION: Engineer.

“FICES HELD: President and chairman, Climax Metal Products Company, r1949-
65; vice-president and director, Associated Rubber Company, 1956-55;
director, Nymet Electronics Company, 1960-65; secretary, Forest City
Investment Company, 1962-65.

EMBER OF: Mayfield Country Club; Union Club; Hermit Club; Cleveland
Skating Club.

IBLICATIONS: Non-Metallic Gearing, U.S, Patent No. 3,031,440.

LY life since graduation has been interesting and enjoyable and I
el that my years at Harvard helped to make it so, Although the
rtunes of a small manufacturer can sometimes be hair-raising, I
nd sufficient compensation in having considerable freedom in the
roice of my activities.

Ours is a closely knit family although it is currently somewhat
attered with our eldest daughter in her junior year at Wellesley
id our second daughter a freshman at Connecticut College. When-
er possible we indulge in far-flung vacations: Florida, Arizona,
ape Cod, Europe, and our favorite sports are of the outdoor
riety: golf, swimming, skiing and hunting, Virginia and I believe
at the successful launching of our share of the new generation is
¢ most rewarding and useful service we can offer to socicty,

[ 1396 ]

mm ANNIVERSARY REPORT

 

E RENSSALAER WHITE

 

 

wena JOncaster St., Roslindale 31, Mass. (Lost

NEIL SPRAGUE WHITE

 

== umson Rd., Rochester, N.Y. 14616.

[ 1397 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ROBERT LOVELL WHITE

 

AILING ADpRESS: 721 Race St., Denver, Colo,

+ ROBERT SHAW WHITE

 

oN: July 4, 1918, Cambridge, Mass. parents: Frederick Glover White, 19,
Harriet Webber.

REPARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; A.M., 1947.

1ED: Feb, 14, 1950, Paris, France.

\FTER graduation White enlisted in the Navy V-7 Program, was
-ommissioned an ensign and reported for active sea duty. He
erved aboard various large ships, attained the rank of lieutenant
commander and was relieved from active duty in September, 1945.
He taught Latin at the Hotchkiss School and did graduate work at
Harvard and Middlebury College in Vermont, before going to Paris
where he was taking advanced study in Slavic languages, continuing

1 1398]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

work for his Ph.D. at Harvard. He drowned as he tricd, unsuc-
cessfully, to save a woman from drowning and was posthumously
awarded the Legion of Honor by the French government. Ele was
survived by his mother, White’s father, who was a professor of
English at Harvard, died in 1948.

SAMUEL WALTER WHITE, JR.

¥ CPi ok e em oor <7
>
7

*.

  

BN IEEE ROBE Eo,

Sagi ay eke OE ENE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 644 Walden Rd., Winnetka, Il.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 400 W. Madison St., Chicago, Ill.

PREPARED AT: Evanston Township High School, Evanston, Il.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; M.B.A., 1942.

MARRIED: Stephanie Day, July 11, 1942. CHILDREN: Anne Stephanie, June 68,
1943 (m. Russell B. Siebert, Dec. 22, 1962); Helen Newell, Feb. ta, tags,

. Carolyn Day, June 28, 1947. GRANDCHILD: David Russell Sicbert, July, 1943.

HARVARD BROTHER: Robert Newell White, ’q1, 1a. "42.

OCCUPATION: President, farm equipment manufacturing firm.

OFFICES HELD: Member, Northbrook, Ilinois, School Board, 19so-53, director,
Farm Equipment Institute, 1958-64.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of Chicago; Harvard Business School Club of
Chicago; Farm and Industrial Equipment Institute; Skokie Country Club.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago, on graduation, MY prospects were: A
pleasant two-year interlude at Harvard Business School, marrying
my home town sweetheart, training for business, etc. But then came
December 7, 1941! My USNR commission, M.B.A. degree, and
orders to Washington preceded only shortly my long-anticipated
marriage to Stephanie Day, also of Evanston, Illinois, After two and
one-half years’ duty at Navy Department, Washington, [ became
aide to a vice- -admiral, Commander Service Forces Pacitic Flect, and
finished out the war in Hawaii, My naval e\perience, never boring

[ 1399 ]

an

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

nor dangerous, was on the contrary quite rewarding
crossing paths with numerous ’4o and HBS Classmates.

Before the war, Oliver Corporation, a Chicago-based farm and
industrial equipment manufacturer, had given me three college sum-
mers’ experience. After the peace, I parlayed this, my HBS degree,
my naval discipline and “maturity” into a factory position at
Oliver's tillage implement plant in South Bend, Indiana. In 1946,
we had added Anne and Happy and a little later our third daughter,
Carolyn.

Oliver has represented my entire business career and I have
thoroughly enjoyed it. Our farm equipment industry is characterized
by fine people, eager competitors, income-producing tools, frustra-
tions of weather — an unpredictable outcome for most decisions!

In pursuit of this industrial siren, I moved through factory,
foundry, production control, budgetary control, troubleshooting,
warehouse stretching, sales analysis, and sales direction. We have
owned houses in South Bend, Indiana; Northbrook, Illinois, Los
Altos, California; and in 1957 back home to Winnetka, Illinois, a
comfortable suburb north of Chicago.

Oliver has many overseas distributors, so a number of trips to
improve communications and sales gave me valuable insight on
export trading in the days preceding formation of the Common
Market and extensive overseas manufacturing and licensing.

White Motor Company, Cleveland, heavy duty truck manu-
facturer, acquired Oliver late in 1960. At that time I moved up to
president, a position ] have enjoyed most heartily. Our company’s
fortunes have been recently blessed with good farm income, tolerant
overseers, and most helpful associates and dealers.

Stephanie and our three girls have so much enjoyed our frequent
suminer visits to the north woods country that we now own a one-
acre island of rock on Rainy Lake near International Falls, Minne-
sota. For recreation we golf, ski, curl, swim and bend an elbow at
the pop of a cork.

Our chief event of the past two years was the marriage of our
eldest daughter, Anne, to Russell Siebert. Both attended Michigan
State, Now living in Denver, they produced our first grandchild,
David, in July, 1963. Daughter Happy is now finishing Pine Manor

Junior College in Wellesley. Carolyn earned an early decision berth
at Smith.

— including

Twenty-five years — wonderful years — much still ahead to ex-
plore and enjoy. Many fine friends lost in the war, but so many

[ 1400 J

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Harvard friends now actively demonstrating their worth in nu-
merous satisfying ways. Harvard, in our formative years, had a pro-
found influence on most — she deserves a full measure of credit for
the push to help our desires become fruitful.

JAMES FARNUM WHITEHEAD, JR.

 

HOME ApprEss: 825 Lawrence Ave., Westfield, N.J.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 41 EF. 42d St., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Newton High School, Newton, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.
MarRiED: Marjorie E. Jones, Sept. 13, 1941. CHILDREN: James Farnum, 3d, Oct.
10, 1943; John Chandler, June 19, 1946, Nancy Randolph, July 9, 1948.
HARVARD sons: James Farnum Whitehead, 3d, 65; John Chandler Whitehead,
68.

occuPATION: President, Regal Shoe Division, vice-president and director, Brown
Shoe Company.

MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; University Club, New York City,
Baltusrol Golf Club, Springfield, N.J.

[ 1401 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

CHARLES FREDERICK WHITING, JR

 

appress: 27 W. 44th St., New York, N.Y.
: appress: American Express Co., 65 Broadway, New York, N.Y.
rep AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.
IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.
TION: Financial — Travelers cheque sales manager — sales,
-k OF: Harvard Club of New York.

e time I was graduated from Harvard with an A.B. degree
e, 1940, I had already decided that a change from the New
ad scene, which I had thoroughly enjoyed during my school
Ilege days, might be a good idea for a time.

> my interests “hay i in the areas of sales and public relations, I
da job with the Columbia Broadcasting System in New
ity in their sales training program beginning in October,
“remained at CBS learning the business of network radio
sting until I entered the Army as a private in January, 1942.
next four years belonged to Uncle Sam. I was commissioned
licutenant, Air Corps, as an administrative officer in July,
hortly thereafter, I went overseas where I served for two
If years as a supply officer with a Troop Carrier Squadron,
ting with this unit in the North African, Sicilian, and
ampaigns, I was separated from the service in January,
captain, Air Force Reserve. °

my return to civilian life I resumed my work at CBS, New
, in the sales field where I stayed for about a year. At this
elt the itch to move on and so took a job as a radio time
with the George P, Hollingberg Company. For the next
s I sold radio time to advertisers in New York and Boston
lio stations which we represented,

[1402 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Early in 1951 I decided to leave the field of radio broadcasting to
take a position with the American Express Company which appeared
to offer a greater opportunity for the future. As a result, for the
past fourteen years [ have been happily and gainfully employed by
American Express in a sales promotion capacity which has made
possible considerable travel throughout the United States and enabled
me to become acquainted with people in many different walks
of life.

Upon reviewing the twenty-five years which have flown by
since leaving Harvard, I can truthfully say that for the most part
I have heartily enjoyed living through this hectic period. Despite
the tragic and catastrophic events of these years, it has certainly
been a stimulating, exciting, and challenging era.

I am more than ever convinced that we still have a great land of
opportunity here for all who wish to seek it. Furthermore, I am
optimistic that by exercising restraint and good judgment, we will
be able to work out in time our difficult domestic and international
problems. That mankind, with all its differences and vagaries, has
managed to survive some twenty years of the Nuclear Age is no
small feat in itself. “This fact alone can provide us with encourage-

ment and hope for the future.

GRAHAM HARRIS WHITING

 

MAILING ADDRESS: 188 Cottage Ave., Fond du Lac, Wis.

[ 1403 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

EDWARD ALLEN WHITNEY, Jr,

 

appREss: 55 E. 87th St., New York, N.Y.

Abpress: Radio Advertising Bureau, 116 E. 55th St, New York, N.Y,
-p aT: St. Paul’s School, Concord, N.H.

N COLLEGE: 1936-1940.

»: Elisabeth Voltolini, June 20, 1945.

ion: Radio; director of member service, Radio Advertising Bureau.

TED in U.S. Army Signal Corps, December, 1941. Com-
ed overseas, Discharged captain after four and a half years;
ears, eight months of which in Europe. Very interesting
rich I wouldn't have missed but wouldn’t want to repeat,
or meeting my French war bride.

1939: various administrative and executive positions in NBC
nd TV. Particularly exciting: NBC International (pre-

" America) Radio; establishing methods and procedures for
working, Other jobs: Vice-president, general manager,
‘ion WKNY, Kingston, New York; print media manager,
nal advertising rate and data publication. Presently direc-
ber Service, Radio Advertising Bureau, an “association of
formed, best-operated radio stations in the United States.”
dian, Australian, Japanese, French members.

int? Two thoughts: Today’s youth 1s, probably, far more
than it's usually given credit for being: ’'m content to
future in its hands—as if there were a choice! — and
children, my observation is unclouded, unbiased, com-
ective; life for the Class of ’40, and thereabouts, may not
be comfortable but it certainly isn’t dull, and there can
few periods when events have so clearly illuminated the

id the greatness of the human animal all over the world,

[ 1404 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

truly, as a wise man said, “‘we are not put into this world to better
it by direct action” — how futile, not to say arrogant! — “but to
better it by improving ourselves”; in my case, that task is far from
completed!

MATTHEW JOHN WHITTALL, Il

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Etna, N.H.

RICHARD FRAZER WHITE WHITTEMORE

 

HOME AppREss: 106 Morningside Drive, New York, N.Y, 10027,

OFFICE ADpREss: Teachers College, Columbia University, New York, N.Y. to027.

PREPARED AT: Fountain Valley School, Colorado Springs, Colo,

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B, 1940; AM, (Columbia Univ.), toa:
PH.D. (ibid.), 1962.

MARRIED: Barbara Van Ness, Dec, 13, 1942, CHILDREN: Sewall (Sue), June 24
1944; Robert Dunster, Oct. 13, 1947; Thomas Crosby, Dee. tg, 1940.

HARVARD BROTHER: Anthony Rogers Whittemore, "43 (deceased).

[ 1405 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

of resistance. Had he foreseen the heartaches that moving brought
for every member of the family, he would not have dared to accept,
Now, however, with Sue at Briarcliff College, Bob and Tom at
Horace Mann School, and Barbara beginning to discover the excite-
ment of living in New York City, he is happily settled into what
may someday be important work.

Looking back to 1940, Whittemore realizes that Harvard gave
him more than a barely earned degree. Despite his regrettable
inattention throughout the undergraduate years, Harvard somehow
made him aware of the majesty and power of learning. Perhaps he
only sought a place for himself in the academic world in order to
compensate for the early failures, but seek it he did. He is grateful.

4: BENJAMIN WILCOX, JR.

 

BorN: April 19, 1918, Boston, Mass. parents: Benjamin Wilcox, Grace Thomp-
son.

PREPARED AT: Deerfield Academy, Deerfield, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.
piep: Died of wounds, March 15, 1945, in Germany.

AFTER graduation Wilcox enlisted in the Army and was assigned
to Field Artillery. In 1942 he received his commission as a second
lieutenant, joined the Fifth Armored Division and later was attached
to the headquarters of the West Virginia Maneuver Area, as an in-
structor. Before sailing for Europe, he was stationed for a short
time at Camp Butner. He died of wounds reccived in Germany and

was posthumously awarded the Bronze Star Medal. He was survived
by his mother.

[ 1408 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

MALCOLM RICHARD WILKEY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 440 FE, 23d St., New York, N.Y. rooto.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Kennecott Copper Corp., 161 E. 42d St. New York, N.Y. 10017.

PREPARED AT: Madisonville High School, Madisonville, Ky.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., #agna cum laude, 1940.

MARRIED: Emma Secul Depolo, Dec. 21, 1959.

occupaTION: Attorney; secretary and general counsel, Kennecott Copper
Corporation.

OFFICES HELD: U.S. Attorney, Houston, Texas, 1954-58; Assistant Attorney Gen-
eral of United States, Washington, D.C., 1958-61; US. Delegate, United
Nations Conference on Remedies Against Abuses of Administrative Au-
thority, Buenos Aires, Argentina, 1959; Alternate Delegate, Republican
National Convention, Chicago, 1960; partner, Butler, Binion, Rice & Cook,
Houston, Texas, 1961-63.

MEMBER OF: Phi Beta Kappa; Delta Sigma Rho; Signet Society; American Law
Institute; International Law Association; American Bar Association, Amer-
ican Society of International Law; Inter-American Bar Association, Awe
ciation of the Bar of the City of New York; Harvard Club of New York;
The Sky Club.

[ 1409 |

___

HARVARD CLASS OF 19.40

HOLLAND LAMB WILLARD

 

JOME ADDRESS: Meeting House Road, South Duxbury, Mass.

9FFICE ADDRESS: Specialty Converters, Inc., 20 Mill Lane, East Braintree, Mass,
REPARED AT: Phillips Academy, Andover, Mass.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. €1/711 laude, 1940.

aarrieD: Norma Malum, Sept. 24, 1949. CHILDREN: Holly Ellen, July 15, 1954;
Richard Dana, July 18, 1956.

ccupaTion: President, Specialty Converters, Inc., chemical manufacturing
process, research and development and licensing process under patents,

[EMBER OF: Marshfield Country Club; Harvard Club of New York; Harvard
Varsity Club.

Y the time we were leaving Cambridge in June of 1940, I was most
rxious to be done with formal education and push on into the
oneral business world. However, after starting on a business career
_the paper industry as a plant and then a sales trainee, I wound up

the USAF as a private in May of 1942.
By December 31, of that year, 1 was a second lieutenant in the
nti-Aircraft Artillery, capping three months of the most arduous
ity of my life at Officers Candidate School, Camp Davis, Wilming-
n, North Carolina. Six months in the AA Training Command
nvinced me that the man in the plane had the safest and best berth,
long as he was careful — so by December of 1943, | had earned my
ings as an AF pilot.
By June of 1944, I was learning the consequences of this erroneous
Jgment through almost daily contact with the German Air Force
d the accurate German 88 anti-aircraft artillery. After completing
our of combat missions in B-17’s, with the isth Air Force in Italy,
nded my Air Force career as an instrument instructor of French
ation cadets at Selma, Alabama.

By December of 1945, 1 was a civilian once again and back sclling

[ 1410 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

paper, based in midtown Manhattan. My bachelor life ended in

September, 1949, in Evanston, Illinois, when I was married to Norma

Malum of Chicago, Illinois. Our married life really moved into high

gear when daughter Holly joined us in 1954, while we were living

in Bronxville, New York. Less than two years later, we were back
in New England — Barrington, Rhode Island — and son Richard
joined us. I was working out of corporate headquarters in Artle-

boro, Massachusetts, as merchandising manager which required a

moderate amount of traveling, principally throughout the Fast and

the Midwest.

In May, 1959, I became president of Specialty Converters, Inc.
East Braintree, Massachusetts, a small publicly owned corporation
engaged in paper coverting. In the past six years, our management
has completely remolded this company by selling off the paper-
converting operation and engaging in the licensing of a patented
process for plastic foam which we developed. Progress to date has
been very encouraging and we expect greater success in the near
future.

In July of 1961, we moved to Duxbury, Massachusetts, one of the
earliest and loveliest of Pilgrim villages, home of Miles Standish,
John Alden and Elder William Brewster. Holly, now ten, and Ricky,
now eight, enjoy the seashore summers and put up with grade school
in the winter. Norma never has enough time to complete her count.
less projects and dad Willard spends his spare hours on the golf

course trying to recapture the lower scores of twenty vears ago,

Looking back on the twenty-five years just passed, and looking
ahead to the next twenty-five, I can wish only that the future be as
satisfying as the past.

There will never be enough time to read books which need read-
ing, to renew old friendships and make new ones, and never enough
time to reflect on what has been done — but only on what will be
done — today and tomorrow. °

[ tgtt]

ed

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ARTHUR STOTESBURY WILLIAMS

 

JOME ADDRESS: 1922 Rittenhouse Sq., Philadelphia, Pa. 19103.

*REPARED AT: William Penn Charter School, Philadelphia, Pa.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

JARVARD BROTHERS: Henry Justice Williams, ’26, LL.B., ’29; Ellis Tilton Williams,
MBA, 32.

ccuPATION: Retired.

MEMBER OF: The Athenaeum of Philadelphia; Library Company of Philadel-
phia; Historical Society of Pennsylvania, National Trust for Historic
Preservation; Philadelphia Museum of Art; Philadelphia Athletic Club.

CALVIN WILLIAMS

 

OME appress: Rose Ledge, 858 Hale St., Beverly Farms, Mass.

FFICE ADDRESS: Raytheon Co., Space & Information Systems Division, Sudbury,
Mass.

REPARED AT: Hempstead High School, Hempstead, Long Island, N.Y.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B., 1940,

aarRieD: Elizabeth Scott Hammond, June 20, 1942. cHitpreN: Calvin, Jr., Nov.

[1412 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

10, 1943; Blakeslee Hammond, Dec. 14, 1949; Megan Lewis, Oct. 5, 1952;
Scott Sutherland, Feb. 9, 1956.

HARVARD BROTHER: Webster Fairbanks Williams, Jr., ’35.

occuPATION: Manager, engineering administration (aerospace industry).

OFFICES HELD: Institutional representative, Troop 25, Boy Scouts of America,
Beverly Farms.

MEMBER OF: American Management Association, American Institute of Aero-
nautics & Astronautics.

THESE twenty-five years have been devoted to the evolution of a
value system for family happiness. Each move seems now to have
been predestined to land us back in Massachusetts where my father
and mother took off from circa 1909.

After graduation I spent a very happy year in company of such
1940 stalwarts as Ben Wood, Phil Strong, Roger Derby at Columbia
Law School in New York. The war drums were beating loudly by
June, 1941, and return to law school seemed futile. I joined the
Naval Reserve and after two months at Cornell ended up at BUAER
in Washington and spent four years buying and distributing aircraft
equipment to the fleet. This war experience in logistics certainly
set my vocational pattern, probably because of my association with
General Motors and their business practices in two New Jersey
plants building warplanes.

Postwar life started in Philadelphia with the first real taste of
industrial engineering which continued in a consulting career in
New York, a production manager hitch in Connecticut and a final
realization that Massachusetts and the ocean had a very strong tug
that we could resist no longer.

We think our value system is pretty complete, we love our home,
the uniqueness of our town where isolation or involvement is a
personal choice without pressure, the seashore activities, our near-
ness to the ski slopes, the advantages of Boston where Betty has
earned her Harvard Ed.M. and I am taking courses in education
with a Master’s degree in mind and where we enjoy Harvard sports
and winter Waltz Evenings.

We do things very much together as a family. Our immediate
next objective is the education of Blake, Megan and Scott and

longer-term considerations include plans to retire to teaching when
the saddlepoint of education costs is behind us and I get tired of
the “old rat race.”

[1413 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

DAVID BALCH WILLIAMS

 

3s: 12 Wood St., Concord, Mass.

ss: First District Court of Northern Middlesex, Main Street, Ayer
iechan & Williams, 29 Walden St., Concord, Mass.
sovernor Dummer Academy, South Byfield, Mass,

EGE: 1936-1937, 1938-1941. DEGREES: S.B. 1940(41); LL.B. (Boston

: Augusta Miller, June 7, 1952. cHiLpREN: Deborah, July 22,
ry Mark, Jan. 3, 1956.

vyer and Judge.

Jerk, District Court of Central Middlesex, Concord, Mass.,
nber, Massachusetts House of Representatives, 1951-53, Massa-
ernor’s Council, 1953-54; special justice, First District Court
Middlesex, Ayer, Afass., since 1954; national commander, Dis-
in Veterans, 1958-59; president, Association of Special Jus-
husetts, since 1962.

al, Massachusetts and Middlesex County Bar Associations,
Trial Lawyers Association; Association of Special Justices
s; Massachuetts Legislators Association, Councillors Club
; Disabled American Veterans, American Legion; V.F.W.;
; Eagles; Moose; Lions; Masons; Odd Fellows, K. of P.;
ation; S.A.E.; National Council of Juvenile Court Judges;
U.C.T.; World Veterans Federation; etc.

duation I entered Boston University Law Schoo!
e year before enlisting in the U.S. Army. After
duty containing experiences common to many,
1 first lteutenant in the then Army Air Corps,
e USAF. [ returned to law school and was
“ith the Class of 1947. I was admitted to the
948 and the Federal Bar a year later, During
ed as clerk of the District Court of Central

| Massachusetts. Then followed two terms

[ 1414 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

in the Massachusetts House of Representatives and one term in the
Governor’s Council.

In December, 1954, I was appointed Special Justice of the First
District Court of Northern Middlesex at Ayer, Massachusetts. As
of this writing (November, 1964), I am about to complete my tenth
year in this capacity. Although this office is not presently classified
as “full time,” this has been my principal occupation during the
past decade. A limited practice of law is still permitted to special
justices; however, this is not likely to long continue, nor should it.

Due to the kindness of my superiors, periodic leaves of absence
were granted to permit me to serve as National Commander of the
Disabled American Veterans and, subsequently, to serve briefly on
the staff of the U.S. Administrator of Veterans’ Affairs on a special
assignment. The opportunity was also afforded me to be a member
of the United States delegation to the World Veterans Federation
at the General Assemblies in Rome in 1959 and in Paris in 1961.

I am presently serving my third term as president of the Associa-
tion of Special Justices of Massachusetts. I have been a member of
the law firm of Whitney, Sheehan & Williams in Concord, Massa-
chusetts, since 1948. I am still serving the Disabled American
Veterans in several consultant capacities.

The pursuit of legal and judicial matters on the one hand, and
the concerns of our wartime disabled veterans, their widows and
dependents on the other, has consumed the vast preponderance of
my time, interest, and effort during the past quarter century, thus
limiting that which would be available for other pursuits. However,
I have found that these endeavors have touched almost every other
worth-while field, thus affording me an excellent view of the
broad spectrum of life. I am certain that my involvement with all
of these things has been rewarding to me, I hope that it has in some
measure been mutual.

The Almighty has been most kind to me in my personal life. Al-
though my father, who has alwavs exerted silent influence and guid-
ance on me, passed away while I was absent in the armed services,
my mother is still with me and presently resides but a few minutes’
walk from Harvard Square. She is blessed with good health and
posesses great energy and enthusiasm which has through the years
provided me with oft-needed inspiration and encouragement to
carry on.

Few men have been as fortunate as I in the partnership of hfe.
Words are never adequate to describe this relationship, it is too all

[145 ]

_—_———

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

encompassing. Our children are still young (ages nine and eleven)
We are grateful that they are normal in every respect and provide
us with our greatest challenge and greatest joy. They showed
great wisdom in the selection of their mother. They have given
meaning to our lives that cannot come in any other way. For

these unwarranted blessings, I am humble because above all else
this is what makes life altogether worth while.

+ EUGENE JAMES WILLIAMS, JR.

BORN: Sept. 13, 1916, St. Louis, Mo. paRENTS: Eugene James Altheimer, Blanche
Williams.

PREPARED AT: St. Louis Country Day School, St. Louis, Mo.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1935-1941, DEGREE: A.B,, 1940(41).
HARVARD BROTHER: James Thomas Williams, ’39.

vie: July 8, 1952, Long Beach, Long Island, N.Y.
EUGENE JAMES WILLIAMS, JR., was employed for two and a

half years as a civilian by the headquarters of Naval Aviation Supply
in Philadelphia, as an aeronautical instrument supply-technician
supervisor. He was survived by his brother.

HAROLD WILLIAM WILLIAMS

  

  

HOME aporess: 4 Bedford Lane, Alexandria, Va. 22307,

OFFICE ADpREsS: Area Redevelopment Administration, US, Dept. of Commerce,
Washington, D.C.

preparen AT: G.A.R. Memorial High School, Wilkes-Barre, Pa.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: A.B, Cum laude, 1940,

marrigD: Bobbie Glendening, Oct. 3, 1943, CHILDREN: Mark F eb
Charles, Dec. 20, 1954. , °

12, 19525
HARVARD BROTHER: Marvin Williams, '36,

{ 1416 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

occupation: Deputy administrator, Area Redevelopment Administration,

OFFICES HELD: Executive director, Pennsylvania Advisory Board on Problems
of Older Workers, 1957-61; associate director, U.S. Air Force Office of
Community Services, 1951~57; principal assistant, President's Committee
on Religion and Welfare in the Armed Forces, 1949-51, advertising man-
ager, Soft-Lite Lens Company, 1947-48.

MEMBER OF: National Capital Democratic Club.

FOUR years at Harvard taught me to be tough-minded and wary

in searching for the truth. In the years that followed, I learned that
this was not enough. It is also important to develop, hold and
struggle for strong beliefs. When I left Harvard 1 thought that a
comfortable life was most important and I sought to make my for-
tune in the world of business. In twenty-five years I have learned
that working passionately for what you believe to be right is most
important. Fortunately for me, I have been able to do that and
lead a reasonably comfortable life.

I started out to be a business executive in my first job after gradua-
tion, but three months after I started, the company faced a strike
and I found myself on the side of the strikers. After a few more
false starts, I ended up with a foothold in an advertising agency a
few months before Pearl Harbor. The pleasures of a bachelor
living in Greenwich Village and working in a New York advertising
agency were brought to an abrupt halt by the war.

Four years later I was back in New York with a few insignificant
medals, a very significant wife and some memories of what war in
the European Theatre was like for a captain in the Army Air
Force. I was back in Greenwich Village and back in the advertising
business.

Exaggerating the virtues of a variety of foods, beverages, eve-
glasses and assorted commodities soon began to pale, and when a
bizarre combination of circumstances resulted in an offer of a one-
year temporary job in Washington, working for a Presidential com-
mittee, I took it. That was in 1949, and I haven’t worked in New
York or in advertising since.

Working first for the President's Committee on Religion and
Welfare in the Armed Forces and then for the Air Force Oftice of
Community Services, I became, by 1957, a a modestly respectable
civil servant with some competence in community organization,
recreation and military welfare programs, But being a civil servant
isn’t really a way to leap into the battle, and I left the civil service
to take a political appointment in Pennsylvania. The hurly-burly

[1417 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

of working with a State Legislature and county chairmen was more
exciting and, by 1960, I was able to organize the Senior Citizens
for Kennedy in Pennsylvania.

Soon after President Kennedy’s inauguration I was asked to help
organize the Area Redevelopment Administration and I have been
there ever since. My strongest memory will always be the day
President Kennedy called me into his office and bawled me out
unmercifully for what he thought was a failure on our part to
follow through on an assignment for him. Of course, he didn’t
recognize me (although we had both been on the Crimson board),
and he was so fierce and I was so abashed that I never got around
to tell him that 1 was a classmate.

We were married nine years before our first child, so that we
now live in suburban Virginia with two young and active boys, still
many years away from college and still active enough to keep
their parents hopping. Like many people in government and busi-
ness, my job drains most of my energies, but what little is left over

is devoted to taking care of the grounds and teaching Sunday School
in a Unitarian Church.

MANNING AUGUSTUS WILLIAMS, JR.

 

WOME apoarss: 19 Willard St, Cambridge 38, Mass,
office Aportss: Harvard Trust Co., Cambridge 38, Mass.
parparep at; Noble and Greenough School, Dedham, Mass.
VEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937. DEGREE: LL.B, (Suffolk Univ.), 1942.
Marrien: Susanne Bliss, Aug. 28, 1948. CHILDREN: Christopher Newall, Aug. 8
tos; Sarah Hale, Nov. 7, 1952; Elizabeth Dustan, Oct. 8, 1956.
oocuratton; Trust officer, Harvard Trust Company.
orrices HELD: Member, Retirement Board for City of Cambridge
. . > ™
vestry, Christ Church, Cambridge; chairman, Finance Commnittes at
[ 1418 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

bridge Council of Churches; treasurer, Parents’ Council, Browne and
Nichols School; also currently or have been active in various community
and charitable organizations and drives.

MEMBER OF: Boston and Cambridge Bar Associations.

AFTER leaving Harvard as a sophomore in good standing, I secured
a job at the Boston Safe Deposit & Trust Company, and attended
Suffolk Law School nights, receiving an LL.B. degree in 1942 and
passing the Massachusetts bar exam that same year.

After four years’ service in the Air Corps including a year and a
half overseas, I secured a position with the trust department of the
Harvard Trust Company, doing general trust administrative work
which I enjoy very much.

In 1947 I was fortunate enough to meet Susanne Bliss and we were
married the next year. Because of our interest in the Cambridge
community, we bought a home here in 1951. It is located in the
area near the Longfellow House just outside Harvard Square. Now
in addition to our home and my job being in Cambridge, my wife

teaches here and our three children attend Cambridge private schools
(Buckingham and Browne and Nichols). Not only that, but all
these activities take place within walking distance of our home, so
the famous Boston 5 o’clock traffic is just something to read about
in the paper or walk by on our way home.

We hope our friends in the Class will find a minute to drop by
and say “hello” to this set of “complete Cantabrigians” whenever
they happen to be in Cambridge.

«PAUL NORTON WILLIAMS -

 

BorN: March 25, 1919, New York, N.Y. Parents: Benjamin Williams, Florence
Wagman. |

[ 1419 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

PREPARED AT: Hackensack High School, Hackensack, NJ.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1941. DEGREE: $.B., 1940(41).

marrigD: Roberta Hobbs, May, 1948. crip: Paul Norton, Jr., Sept. 23, 1949.
pip: July 14, 1949, Queens, N.Y,

PAUL NORTON WILLIAMS was a chemist in the technical di-
vision of the Socony-Vacuum Oil Company of New York, with
which he had been associated since graduation except for service
during World War II. A heutenant (j.g.) in the Naval Reserve, he
served as an ensign in the South Pacific during the war. He was
survived by his wife. A son, Paul Norton, Jr., was born after Wil-
liams’ death.

HAMLIN LAPHAM WILLISTON

 

HOME AppREss: 346 Vivian St., Oxford, Miss.

OFFICE appress: U.S. Forest Service, University, Miss.

PREPARED AT: Weaver High School, Hartford, Conn.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B. 1940; M.F. (Yale Univ.), 1942.

MarrieD: Elizabeth Sinexon Griffin, July 21, 1945. cHiLpReN: Edward Bruce,
Sept. 21, 1947; Elizabeth Hamlin, Dec. 17, 1949; Charles Bradford, June 1,
1953; Peter Griffin, May 17, 1956.

OCCUPATION: Project leader, Forest Watershed Management Research, U.S.
Forest Service.

OFFICES HELD: Membership chairman, Ozark Section, secretary-treasurer, North
Mississippi Chapter, Society of American Foresters, director, Mississippi
Forestry Association; co-chairman, Forestry Committee, Oxford-Lafayette
Chamber of Commerce.

MEMBER OF: Society of American Foresters, Sigma Xi; Mississippi Forestry

Association,

PusLications: Pole Growers Guide, Southern Forestry Experimental Station
Occasional Paper; “Hardwood underplanting in north Mississippi,” 1957,
“Response of six conifers in north Mississippi underplanting,” 1958, “Soil

[ 1420 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

moisture-seedling growth relations in conversion of blackjack and pest oak

ridges to pine,” 1961, Journal of Forestry; Timber Management Ginde,

1962; plus thirty other technical articles.
TWENTY-FIVE years have transformed a Connecticut Yankee
into a Mississippi Rebel. After two years at the Yale Forestry School
and three and a half years in the Army Air Corps I went to work
for the U.S. Forest Service in Arkansas. I came south simply be-
cause the trees grow faster and I wanted to see the fruits of my
labor. We stayed south because we learned to love living in small
towns and the southern way of life.

Forestry is a far cry from the small boy’s dream of hunt, fish
and trap. It is ticks, chiggers, snakes, briars, oppressive hear, biting
cold and tedious office work. Yet it grows on one and after the first
years few leave for other fields.

We spent seven years in Arkansas in the big pine woods learning
the trade. There was a two-year interlude at an Air Force radar
station in Virginia. Since 1955 we have been at the University of
Mississippi at Oxford, enjoying staff privileges, but stall working for
the Forest Service. For fourteen years my work was in forest
management research; now it is in watershed management rescarch
learning to manage the forests which will hold these eroding hills
in place.

The Oxford riot of 1962 scarred our lives as it did the university
and the people of Mississippi. We are moderates where moderation
is a bad word. Our children are often hard put to explain their
position on politics and public issues. If the rest of the ceuntry
will let Mississippi work out its own problems the end result
will be satisfactory to all.

Boy Scouts, Girl Scouts, Little League and high school band
have been a part of our lives for nine years and w ill be with us for
another eight. By then the last boy, we hope, will have entered
college. The eldest bov enters college this fall to study forestry.
_ As we contemplate the education of our four children we look for:
ward to twenty more years with the Forest Service, and, no doubt,

several more moves,

Crgan |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

DAVID HERBERT WILSON

 

AbprEss: 306 Woodlawn Rd., Baltimore, Md. 21210.
Appress: David H. Wilson & Associates, Baltimore, Md. 21204.
ED AT: Pingry School, Hillside, N.J.
IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREE: S.B., 1940.
pb: Catherine Allen Dickey, June 21, 1941. CHILDREN: Carol Dickey, Aug,
1942; David Herbert, Jr, Oct. 2, 1943; Allen Dickey, April 18, 1947;
ristopher S., Sept. 22, 1950.
9 son: David Herbert Wilson, Jr., ’65.
> BROTHER: William Edlin Wilson, °39.
‘ion: Architect, self-employed.
HELD: President, Baltimore Chapter, American Institute of Architects.
_ oF: Baltimore Chapter, American Institute of Architects, American
itute of Planners; Hamilton Street Club.

XE composing my little bit as a Reunionist, let me excoriate
‘ho selected the “sample” biographies, an unfair challenge to
‘ithout a Hemingway heritage.

e calculated risk of sounding smug, I must admit my good
in finding a most attractive wife, not only tolerant of my
nings but also sympathetic with my ambitions. Four chil-
e hundred per cent out of step with our carefully conceived
ov, girl, boy, girl, have blessed the union. The first, Carol,
cd on the Cambridge tradition with a Harvard diploma, via
David, Junior, graduates from Harvard coincidentally
Class Reunion. Dickey is a freshman at Connecticut College
nen while Christopher, fourteen, still lightens our door-

arriage, a year after graduation, ended a short carefree
ood. Ten months later, the imminent arrival of daughter

mpted a hasty move of the family from Boston to Balti-

[ 1422 |

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

more, my wife’s home city, for their safekeeping during my an-

ticipated tour of duty with an armed service.

A temporary position as a stress analyst with the Glenn L. Martin
Company lasted three and a half years and — lo! —I was a Balti-
morean, albeit somewhat reluctant. Baltimore, like Boston, is a city
hard to know and like but, similarly, hard to leave. We are now
delighted with our decision to remain.

Four years of employment in Baltimore architectural firms ended
with the establishment of my own office in 1949. However, fate
was kind and within a few years we were eating again — that is,
until college expenses reared their ugly headaches. There is consola-
tion in the fact that only eleven more years will see all the children
through graduate school if we can survive this appalling attack of
tuitionitis.

The firm’s architectural work has been varied, challenging and
interesting — schools, hospitals, dormitories, houses, apartments, of-
fice buildings and industrial plants.

Being mathematically inclined, I have:

a. Become increasingly Conservative since learning the frighten-
ing cost of processing my federal tax dollar before it is re-
turned to me, often with absurd strings attached.

b. Begun to despair of my country’s future with its crime in-
creasing at a rate approximately five time that of its popula-
tion. Since the underprivileged and deprived do not account
for a major part of this crime increase, [ entertain a growing
suspicion that the cause may truly be the destruction of per-
sonal initiative occasioned by the vote-getting socialistic phi-
losophies and promises of the Liberal Left. A man with no
purpose lacks dignity and self-esteem. It is then a simple step
over the line to a loss of regard for the property and lives of
others. There is a silver lining however. This massive Crime
Explosion will soon balance out the far less impressive Popu-
lation Explosion!

Physically, I have changed little since Graduation Day if yeu can
overlook twenty-five pounds of fat, grav hair, pot- -belly, shortness
of breath, some false teeth and a cute ‘little mole nicht in the middle
of my forehead. My stellar condition can be attributed to a five-
week R.C.A.F. exercise program (two years ago), Oceasional tennis
and four or five days of exciting, laborious skiing each year

[ 1423 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

RICHARD LAWRENCE WING

  

appress: 15 Oak Rd., Montrose, N.Y.

appress: Board of Cooperative Educational Services, 845 Fox Meadow
1, Yorktown Heights, N.Y.

:p at: New Bedford High School, New Bedford, Mass.

IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum latide, 1940; M.A.T., 1941;
D5 1959.

»: Marcia Mae Crichton, Dec. 24, 1952. cuitp: Deborah Ellen, Feb. 12,

ton: Coordinator of curriculum research, Board of Cooperative Edu-

onal Services, First Supervisory District, Westchester County, New
k. |

ELD: Member, Scholarship Committee, Harvard Club of Southern
ornia, late "40's; president, BOCES Society, 1964~65.

or: Harvard Club of Westchester; AAAS; AASA; ASCD; DAVI,
S; NCTE; NTTA; ete.

ons: Education for Effective Thinking, W. H. Burton, R. B. Kimball

X. L. Wing, Appleton-Century-Crofts, New York, 1960; dissertation,
ont Changes in Dutch Education,” Harvard.

we graduated in 1940 each of us was curious to know the

to the questions typed below. By now it is obvious what
shad lined up for at least one of us.

! wwe keep going to school? Yes— for one more year to get
s degree in teaching; then eighteen more years of summer
‘te afternoon classes, a year of residence and, finally the
mn for the Doctor of Education degree, In the course of
‘ience 128 graduate units of education acquired, a record
ort. Many of these courses were extremely well taught,
°s contrary to the general expectation.

ind of jobs would we hold? My first job was in a barrage
ctory, whipping ends of rubber cords for Goodyear while

[ 1424 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

waiting to be drafted. The first teaching position was in Long
Beach, California, where I taught Latin and several other subjects
in three different high schools during the periods 1946-50, 195 3-55
and 1957-59. Other interesting teaching assignments were in Hol-
land as a Fulbright teacher (1956-57) and in Paris as a counselor
at the Paris American High School (1959-61).

My present job as a coordinator of curriculum and research is
to give advice on curriculum improvement to several districts in
Northern Westchester that are not quite sure they need improve-
ment and to direct a federal research project on the use of computer-
based teaching machines to instruct students in the grades. The latter
assignment is a fascinating one obliging me to work closely with
some pleasant people at IBM and with a list of expert consultants.

Would we get married? For some classmates this question was
already answered in 1940, but for me there was a period of twelve
miserable years as a bachelor before an affirmative answer was
found. I met Marcia Crichton in the education library in 1951 and
married her the following year. We have one daughter, Deborah,
aged ten.

Would we get into the war? Yes. Two wars. From 1942 to
1946, I was in the anti-aircraft and later the infantry serving in

Georgia, California, North Carolina, England, France and Germany.
Then after five years in the Reserve, getting promoted to captain,
I was recalled and sent to Korea in spite of several alternative suggcs-
tions on my part. In the Ninth Field Artillery Battalion (155's) I
was battalion communications officer. After seven months of living
in a rather comfortable cave in Korea I was restored to civilian lite,
passing up another opportunity to join the Reserves.

Would we become famous? Not in this case.

What sort of a philosophy of life would we subscribe to? We
have passed through periods of theism, utilitarianism and pragma-
tism and are now cultivating illusionism, by which we mean that
some classes of objects or ways of living, although evidently lick-
ing in real value, may become of great illusionary value and solace
or entertainment because we have been able to imagine that they are
worth while. Some illusionary attitudes: chronic Francophilia, love
of foreign languages, art and music appreciation, and admiration
of the labels on bottles of wines that all taste the same.

Could we get into Harvard if we had to apply in iyss? Nowa
chance.

[1425 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

JOSEPH WINKELLER

* all es pees ve :

    

press: 12 Fairfield St., Newtonville, Mass. 02160.

spRESS: 1576 Commonwealth Ave., Brighton, Mass. 02135.

At: Public Latin School, Boston, Mass.

COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., 1940; D.D.s. (Northwestern Univ.),

Miriam Ingall, April 3, 1943. CHILDREN: Mark Joel, Feb. 9, 1947; Paul
cl, July 7, 1953; Richard, April 11, 1956.
N; Dentist.
to: Grand Master, FOFU.
w: Massachusetts Dental Society; American Dental Association;
can Society of Dentistry for Children.
in the course of human events,” one must write a 25th
ty Report, the first thought that comes to mind is that
e years is a very long time. Yet, suddenly the end of this,
a long-awaited period of time is now — and now is our
versary. |
vith aging and maturity comes a slowing down of the
onquer new worlds and break world records, but at the
a greater mental agility, a better understanding of the
tions and interrelations. |
ve been no startling events in my life. After having
¢ ETO for four years, I entered and was graduated from
rn University Dental School in 1949, having acquired a
n along the way, both of whom “stood up for me” at
rent. In retrospect I know that my dental school days
the happiest ones of my life. I was sharing a future
y with my ex-G.I. schoolmates but also with an under-

> and son —the latter obviously had no choice.
come greatly interested in pedodontics, I interned at

[ 1426 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

the Forsyth Dental Infirmary in Boston. The opening of a dental

office followed and the hard facts of living in contemporary society

and dealing with same were more and more evident. I was no longer

cloistered within academic halls. The “‘sensate” world — remember

Sorokin — ideational, idealistic, sensate — with its commercialism,
concreteness, drive, etc., was an awakening — not a rude one, how-
ever. I had anticipated this. Along with passage of time, we had
two more sons and we acquired, outgrew and again acquired homes.
As for contemporary glass houses — ranch, multi-level, split-level —
you can have them, I don’t want them, they’re too cold for me!

My eldest son (higher IQ than mine — far better CEEB scores)
is now a freshman at Bowdoin — having forgotten all the dentistry
he learned at school with his father — where his college years will
be more gratifying and more enlightening among a class of 240
than my undergraduate years were among a class of 1400. My two
youngest sons, twelve and nine —apparently have like polarity,
when together, sparks fly. But they make me “feel young.”

I still enjoy and still play tennis, have learned to play badminton
well enough to have won tournaments, still enjoying reading, and
still play bridge with Harvard ’go classmates. Although I have lost
hair and teeth, I have not gained a paunch. However, I'm not a lean
greyhound.

As for politics, independent thinking allows me to vote the man,
not the party. I am a staunch advocate of the dignity of man, in-
cluding civil rights for all of us.

Although I’m getting older and have my share of aches and pains,
I accept these gratefully and willingly and look forward to our soth.

[ 1427 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF r940

+ WARREN WINSLOW

 

June 25, 1918, Boston, Mass. parents: Charles Gibson Winslow, 93,
-osamond Gibson.
RED aT: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.

IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.
ED: Phoebe T. Goodhue, Aug. 8, 1942.
‘an. 3, 1944, off Rockaway Point, N.Y.
2REN WINSLOW was commissioned an ensign in the Naval
ve at the time of his graduation from college and was in his
year at the Law School when called to active duty. Sub-
ily promoted to lieutenant (j.g.) and lieutenant, he served
1 the destroyers Wilkes, Taylor and Turner. He died in an
ion of the Turner and was survived by his wife.

[FREDERICK ROWLAND HAZARD WITHERBY

  

2ESS: 6o Chestnut St., Boston 8, Mass.
ress: New England Mutual Life Insurance Co., 510 Boylston Stes
117, Mass,

[ 1428 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

PREPARED AT: Milton Academy, Milton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., 1940; LL.B., 1943 (47).

Marriep: Anne Byrd Reed, April 11, 1942. cHiLpreN: Frederick Rowland
Hazard, Jr., Jan. 12, 1943; Horace Reed, July 24, 1946.

HARVARD SONS: Frederick Rowland Hazard Witherby, ’65, Horace Reed With-
erby, ’68.

HARVARD BROTHER: Thomas Hazard Witherby, ’38.

OCCUPATION: Lawyer; associate counsel in law department, New England
Mutual Life Insurance Company, responsible for legal aspects of com-
pany’s investments.

OFFICES HELD: Member, board of directors, since 1956, chairman, Legislative
Committee, and member, executive committee, since 1961, Massachusetts
Society for the Prevention of Cruelty to Children, trustee, since 1954,
clerk, 1954-60, Brimmer and May School; member, Law Enforcement
Committee, since 1963, Finance Committee, since 1964, Beacon Hill Civic
Association; member, board of directors, 1952-59, treasurer, 1956-59, East
End Union of Cambridge, member, board of directors, since 1956, Person-
nel Practices Committee, since 1962, Norfolk House Center (now Rox-
bury Federation of Settlements); member, board of governors, Cam-
bridge Tennis Club, since 1963.

MEMBER OF: American and Boston Bar Associations, Association of Life In-
surance Counsel; Boston Committee on Foreign Relations, World Affairs
Council; The Country Club; Somerset Club; Dunes Club.

PUBLICATIONS: “Personal Property Lease Financing,” Duke Law Journal, winter
issue, 1963.

I HAVE been living in Boston now for fifteen years on Beacon Hill,
with my wife and family, and from my window the December scene
is reminiscent of a print by Currier and Ives. Our brick house here
has five floors, which involves vertical living as opposed to the cur-
rent vogue for ranch style architecture. This is a rather old-fashioned
community in which the historical is always present, yet there are
modern touches, in that the office, or shops or theatres, are only a
ten- or fifteen-minute walk away. Asa couple who moved here from
Rhode Island and New York, we have come to enjoy being a part
of it.

I spent the first year and one-half after graduation at Harvard
Law School, and then in rapid succession joined the Navy and was
married. In comparison with lots of others, T count my self fortunate
in the assignments handed me by the Bureau of Personnel, because
they included sea duty in the Atlantic, Washington, a tour with the
R.A.F. in England, and finally a year in China w ith H.Q.. rgth Aro
Air Force. Immediately after the war, I returned to finish the Law
School and to live in our first house in Cambridge with a new small
son, It was a pleasure to be back in a univ ersity atmosphere after

[ 1429 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

three years of doing everything “by the book” and without any
doubt I appreciated Harvard's intellectual values at my then ad-
vanced age of twenty-eight more than I ever had before.

After two years of practice in a Boston firm, I went to an
electronics company as house counsel, and from there, six years
later, to my present job. My work is now specialized in the field of
corporate financing —I deal with almost anything the financial
market has to offer, from Japanese bonds to shopping centers —
and have found pleasant working associations with lawyers all over
the country who are also immersed in this area of business law.

On the subject of family and interests, most activities in our house
are a joint effort, whether the account concerns fund raising,
charities, politicking, travel, projects, or just enjoyment. Our time
seems to be filled by a succession of interesting, sometimes exciting,
and generally worthy undertakings, most of which are also enjoy-
able. For example, we went to the Republican National Convention
last July, ending up with a pocketful of Scranton buttons and a
far more informed view of how national candidates are selected, and
came to know something of San Francisco, a most interesting city.

Our two boys are both at “the” College, and it is nice not only that
they got in but that they are near enough to see once in a while. I
am constantly amazed at the quantity of book-learning which is de-
manded of their generation, but they seem to carry the load well and
still enjoy life.

We have succeeded in traveling a good deal as a family, both in
the U.S. and, most recently, in 1962, in Europe. On a good week-
end I get to the country for skiing or sometimes sailing, but tennis
is still my favorite on an all-year-round basis.

In retrospect over these years, it seems to me that we have lived in
and through some extraordinary times and, looking forward, I can-

not help but wonder how this account will look in 1990, if 1 am here
to think it over after another twenty-five years,

[ 1430 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

RAYMOND ALPHENUS WITHEY, JR.

 

HOME ApprRESs: 2 Main St., Poultney, Vt. 05764.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Green Mountain College, Poultney, Vt.

PREPARED AT: Holyoke High School, Holyoke, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; M.A.T., 1941; S.T.B.,
summa cum laude (Boston Univ.), 1945; PH.D. (ibid.), 1947.

MaRRIED: Felice Gardner, Oct. 10, 1941. cHiLD: Raymond Alphenus, 3d, Jan.

4, 1946.

occuPaTION: President, Green Mountain College.

OFFICES HELD: President, Vermont Foundation of Independent Colleges, since
1962, New England Junior College Council, 1962-63; director, American
Association of Junior Colleges, since 1962.

MEMBER OF: Society of Biblical Literature and Exegesis, University Senate of
Methodist Church; Vermont Commission on Higher Education Facilities,
American Council on Education.

PUBLICATIONS: Articles on education in professional journals.

ALTHOUGH the 25th anniversary of my graduation is rapidly
approaching, I have to admit that I have never left college. Since
that June day in 1940, on campuses from Massachusetts to Oregon,
in large cities and small villages, I have successively been a graduate
student, faculty member and administrator.

Postgraduate education found me “on campus” at Harvard
(M.A.T.), Cornell (briefly) and Boston University (S.T.B. and
Ph.D.). While my stay at Cornell did not result in an academic
degree, by diligence, fortitude and a goodly amount of persuasion,
I acquired a F.G.A.M.W. (Felice Gardner As My Wife) which
several years later resulted in an S.R.J. (Son, Ray, Jr.) who gradu-
ates this June from Hebron Academy.

Teaching provided a round trip to the west coast with stops at
Willamette University, Salem, Oregon (associate professor of re-

[ 1431 ]

_

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ligion) and Drew University, Madison, New Jersey (professor of
biblical literature). In addition to teaching, administrative duties
during this period included positions as dean of students at Willa.
mette and dean of the College of Liberal Arts at Drew. The final
step to full time college administrative duty came in 1958 when I

became president of Green Mountain College in Poultney, Ver-
mont.

Since that time most of my time has been devoted to the overall
supervision of a female student body which has grown from 400
to 600, and a long-range building program (seven new buildings
and modernization of existing structures and facilities).

Although the duties of a college president leave little time for
relaxing (the woodworking shop has gathered much dust in recent
years), there is a tremendous amount of satisfaction in knowing
that one has had more than a small part in directing the thought
processes of youngsters toward academic, moral and spiritual ma-
turity.

The questionnaire has asked for points of view and convictions
which have been acquired during a quarter century. Naturally, my
views are oriented toward the education of young people and how
the process can be improved. I firmly believe that a college is far
more than its campus. It is a way of life, a community of scholars
searching for the great truths that give meaning to human existence.
The various buildings, no matter how attractive they may be, have
no significance until this situation exists.

The mark of an educated person is how well he or she has learned
to respect human life, to know what is right and desire to do it, and
to discover the worth-while processes that will summon the best
within. The degree to which these things are learned is the measure
of how valuable the college years have been. When the students of
any institution become motivated to achieve these ends, the campus
becomes a college. Its bricks and mortar then take on meaning.

Green Mountain College does not rank with my alma mater in
size or endowment. However, if cognizance of our obligations to
students, and realization of opportunities to fulfill these obligations,
can be construed as wealth, then we are indeed wealthy,

One must, I suppose, discuss What effect the ravages of time have
made. I may say, in truth, that time has served me well, Natural!

the hairline has receded to a slight degree and the reverse can be aid
of my waistline. I admit, reluctantly, é

that eyeglasses
part of my life, but only recently. Biasses have become a

[ 1432 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Perhaps the greatest influence I have had in the constant battle
against “growing old” is my everyday contact with young people.
It is well-nigh impossible to feel old when one is surrounded by a
young and healthy and vibrant society.

On several occasions the opportunity to travel abroad has come my
way. Several years ago, under the sponsorship of the U.S. State
Department and the Board of Higher Education of the Methodist
Church, I joined other college presidents in a travel seminar to uni-
versity and educational centers in Russia, Finland, Czechoslovakia,
Germany, Italy, Switzerland, France and the British Isles. For the
Jast three summers my wife and I have led travel seminars to Europe
with Green Mountain students.

As time permits, my avocational interests include, in addition to
the woodworking shop mentioned previously, photography, antiques,
good music and art, and athletics, the latter limited for the most
part to bicycle riding.

I once stated that a college justifies its existence when the student
becomes a self-motivated searcher for truth and when knowledge
begins to mature into wisdom. After twenty-five years in that
“world outside” we were warned about as undergraduates, I have
come to the conclusion that all people will justify their existence
when they become self-motivated searchers for truth and when
their knowledge matures into wisdom.

SAMUEL NATHANIEL WOLBACH

 

HOME apprEss: 619 S. Tilden St., Grand Island, Nebr.
OFFICE ADbREss: First National Bank, Grand Island, Nebr,
PREPARED AT: Middlesex School, Concord, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1940.

[ 1433 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

marriep: Betty Van Arsdale, July 1, 1941. CHILDREN: i i :
5. 19425 William Van Arsdale, July to 1944. woulse Pettinger, April

oeccpation: President, First National Bank, Grand Island, Nebr,

orrices HELD: Director, Equitable Building & Loan Association, since I
Grand Island Industrial Foundation, since 1957, Lutheran Hospital, inne
1952, Nebraska Independent College Foundation, since 1958, Nebraska 4-H
since 1959, Holiday Mobile Home Resorts, Inc., since 1961; director and
treasurer, Overland Trails Council, B.S.A., since 1957; senior warden,

St. Stephen's Fpiscopal Church, 1957-59; member, Diocese of Nebraska
Finance Committee, since 1954; president, YMCA Board, 1950-52; chair-

man, Hall County Museum Board, since 1961; president, Group Five,
Nebraska Bankers Association, 1957.

wesnpr oF: AF. & A.M. 32d Degree; Shrine, BPOE; Grand Island Saddle
Club, Riverside Golf Club; Lincoln University Club; Harvard Club of
Boston, Newcomen Society, Robert Morris Associates.

NOT even waiting for my diploma, I went home to Nebraska,
thence to the nearest airplane factory. After all, I had graduated in
engineering sciences and liked to fly. Beech Aircraft Corporation
hired me and miade use of my education by handing me a file with
which | removed the burr from outer parts. One year later, Wichita,
Kansay, was my home, 1 was married, and drafting in the engineer-
ing department. The war simply froze me at Beech where I was
transferred to the acrodynamics section to work behind locked
doors on secret Air Force plane designs. The only respite from long
hours came as enginecring observer on research flight tests. Peace-
tine decimated airplane production and the future was bleak enough
so thar Twas willing to forego use of whatever professional knowl-
ede about airplanes f might have had to enter the old family enter-
prise. ‘Thus the return to my boyhood home and a start in a busi-
ness activity completely alien to my experience and education.
However, banking does have its compensations and, although the
beginning was unbearably dull, the hours were short and recreation
once again was a part of existence. Through the years I have become
reconciled to the operations of a financial institution and have
found that not too infrequently an engineering approach is somehow
feasible.

At first I worked hard to dispel the impression of most Nebras-
kans of Harvard graduates. The ideas are vague but nevertheless
are coincident that a product of Harvard must have done time in
outer ee Becoming fier wan the recat vernacular was sure
to molt se vy. By managing a farm a
quickly, and there is no Harvard accent for oe ho words came
gilts go-dig, one-way, lister, line-back, founder ats, barrows,

ed, splay-foot, red
{ 1434]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

nose, Bang’s, lump-jaw, etc. Besides, if one is conversant with local
high school football, talks University of Nebraska, and throws in a
few cuss words at appropriate times, the transfiguration can be
assumed complete. In fact, maybe some of it was overdone for I
have bounced over endless Nebraska sand hills, often hopelessly
stuck, and have had the vicarious sensation of pregnancy testing
cows, usually a veterinarian’s prerogative. My local reputation was
established by walking farther in the mud-bottomed sand hills lakes
in breast waders than my duck hunting companions thought pos-
sible. The secret was learned at Harvard. The others had not been
plaving squash.

The disassociation with New England has not been entire, for one
cannot deny the excellence of its educational facilities. A daughter
graduated from Bradford Junior College, finishing at the Uni-
versity of Nebraska. A son matriculated at Middlesex School and is
presently at Claremont Men’s College in California. Furthermore, I
have been the official Harvard interviewer for applicants from
western Nebraska. You are correct in surmising this is a somewhat
rare occurrence.

Community activity is strenuous and some days seems to occupy
far more time than is desirable. Although church work has subsided,
the terms of vestryman, junior and senior warden now in the past,
as are activities of the Chamber of Commerce, YMCA, PTA, United
Funds, and area banking group duties, others seem to adhere. At
present, I am chairman of the Hall County Museum Board, the
principal project being the construction of a museum designed by the
well-known architect, Edward Durell Stone, and a subsequent group
of restorations to be called “The Land of the Prairie Pioneer.”

As a family, we are all staunch Republicans (our children have
been brainwashed since the age of reason in our political philosophy),
none of us smoke, all enjoy an occasional drink, a bridge game, golf,
tennis, and racing an inland scow at Lake Okoboji in the summer.
The only sad note is the health of our Chesapeake retriever who has
survived half of the years since 1940.

The words of Willa Cather aptly describe the intervening years:
“How smoothly the trains run beyond the Missouri.”

[ 1435 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

CHALMERS BENEDICT Woop

 

Appress: 3028 Q St, N.W., Washington, D.C. 20007.

appress: American Embassy, London, England.

Ep at: St. Mark’s School, Southboro, Mass.
‘N COLLEGE! 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B. 1940. |
p: Barbara A. Lindner, March 7, 1942. CHILDREN: Ramsay, March 3,
13; Chalmers Benedict, Jr., Sept. 23, 1946.
) Son: Ramsay Wood, ’65.
rion: First Secretary, American Embassy, London; coordination with
rish Government on Far Eastern Affairs.

HELD: Chairman, Washington area, 25th Reunion Fund-raising; presi-
t, Commercial Cylinder Corporation.

oF: Metropolitan Club, Washington; Brook Club, New York City,
James Club, London; Institute of Strategic Studies, London.

fe, Barbara, and I moved to London in July where I am a first
‘y at the American Embassy. My job involves the co-
ng and sorting out of American and English interests in the
st, particularly Communist China, Viet Nam, Laos, and
1. T occasionally work on India, Pakistan, and South America.
me stimulated.

oreign Service has been my career since I left the military
fter World War II. My first post was Brussels and my first
nt was to analyze the Belgian pigeon feed situation, Next
to Manila, From 1954 to 1957 I worked on Greece and
ind since then I have dealt with Asia, mostly Viet Nam.
ming to London, I had a year of study at the State Depart-
nior Seminar.

‘e American diplomacy will be successful as long as it has

support of the electorate. It would save lives and money
it of Viet Nam. Yet Americans during three administra-

[ 1436 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

tions have supported a difficult and expensive policy of helping Vict
Nam to get on its feet, of holding back ruthless Communist aggres-
sion, and of showing the world that we don’t leave our friends when
they are willing to fight for their freedom and the going gets really
rough.

In a career where I have had continually to learn and deal with the
unusual, my Harvard education has helped me in many ways. I
think the two most important are that Harvard excites the curiosity
of its students and encourages them to think towards solutions, no
matter how unorthodox.

Barbara, my wife, has been more helpful than Harvard. She likes
the challenges of living, learning, and housekeeping abroad. She has
given me much strength and comfort. Our older son, Ramsay, is a
junior at Harvard and our younger son, Chip (Chalmers), 1 is a fifth-
former at Westminster School.

My daily pleasures are walking, reading, and talking, and London
is the place for all three. A few times a month I find time for
photography, swimming, gardening, and tennis.

Like most of us, the hobbies I would really like are the ones I
don’t have time or money for. In my case, these include skiing, skin
diving, and sleeping late.

One of the great pleasures of my career is the travel of a Foreign
Service officer, whether half way around the world to Viet Nam or
down the Thames on a boat to see the old Clipper Cutty Sark at
Greenwich.

Having written of my pleasures and profession, I should like to
return to my family. Since we were married, we have had thirteen
homes and each boy has been to eight schools. We knew this would
happen when I joined the Foreign Service and we have always put
family interests first. Thus, although the boys have had family life,
they have had no home town with the easy ‘camaradcrie of lifelong
friends. They learned independence early, and I believe they know
the value of their friends because they have had to find them.
They’ve found them in some pretty unusual places.

Finally, a suggestion for Harvard. The College needs and well
deserves larger contributions each year. I urge “that as graduates
now live longer, the big drive and the big Reunion should be the

Thirtieth, not the Twenty-fifth. The average alumnus is probably
earning more and spending less on the education of his children
when he reaches fifty-two than when he is forty-seven.

[ 1437]

*NO OCR FOR THIS PAGE*

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

HAMILTON HOLTON WOOD

   

patuck Rd. Dedham, Mass. 02026.
al Management Associates, Inc., 75 Federal St., Boston,

sreenough School, Dedham, Mass.
10, DEGREE! A.B. 1940.
June 26, 1940. CHILDREN: Hamilton Holton, Jr., Oct.

on, May 3, 1947; Olivia, April 26, 1951.
Thomson Wood, ‘41; Orrin Grout Wood, Jr. “45,
od, 49, M.B.A., 51. .
>! — senior analyst.
chairman, 1957-60, Dedham Finance Committee;
am; trustee, Dedham Institution for Savings,
reaver Country Day School; director, Massa-
ention of Blindness.
okline, Mass.
coln, “My story 1s short and sweet,
” My life over the last twenty-five
‘any great success or outstanding
; happy and satisfying one.
enty-five years with a magnificent
'—and three children in each 0
s currently a junior at Boston
Beaver Country Day School 10
‘op-notch employers, W} th a
. ‘ ¢

1 and cordial relations —*
rurer, and Loomis, Say!@s

‘ ‘ ef
ssociates, both invest
2 . [
eventeen ycars in a We
chusetts — with six } 4

ye
way or another We have

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ake a good contribution to the civic life and welfare of

all tried to m .
ty and have had a lot of fun and enjoyment together

this commun}

in sO doing. ; ;
In the interim between graduation in 1940 and settling down in

Dedham in 1947; 1 had one year at Harvard Business School and
almost five years in the Navy, most of which was spent im PT.
boat duty (in part and briefly with Jack Kennedy and Torbie Nac-

donald).
Looking back at what Harvard has meant to me over the \ast

twenty-five years, | am grateful for many things, perhaps the two
most important of which have been a sense and obligation of service
to others (so beautifully and clearly exemplified by our Classmate
John F. Kennedy’s life of service to country and mankind) and an
understanding that our learning process and education only began
with the winning of our degrees at college. In this latter regard,
Harvard taught us the need and importance of constant self-educa-
tion in these ensuing twenty-five years. For these reasons, 1 have
always been proud of and honored by my Harvard association.

What would I do if 1 were to relive the last twenty-five years?
Most certainly I would (1) marry the same girl as quickly as 1 did —
or more quickly, if possible, (2) raise the same family as 1 now
have; erhaps try to live a more mobile and flexible Me than we

3 eee

have, although this is easier to preach than practise, and (4) going
back beyond the last twenty-five years to our undergraduate days,
work harder for a better academic record and hence a better wnder-
standing and knowledge of the many, many wonders of Harvard —
What it means, what it can do for us and, most inyportant, what we

can do for her.

| 1439 |

cence ANAC

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

+ HARRY WILMER WOOD

 

;orN: Jan. 8, 1919, Conshohocken, Pa. parents: Howard Wood, Jr., ’98, Phebe
Wilmer.

REPARED AT: Episcopal Academy, Overbrook, Pa.

"EARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.

TARVARD BROTHER: Howard Wood, 3d, ’38.

1ep: Oct. 24, 1946, Centerville, Md.

3ECAUSE of illness Wood left college after one year with our Class.
Je was invalided because of a jaw infection until 1944 and then
vok a premedical course at Johns Hopkins University. In Septem-
er, 1946, he entered the University of Pennsylvania Medical
‘chool and died a month later. He was survived by his parents, a
ister and a brother.

ROBERT BLOMEN WOOD

 

OME ADDRESS: 329 Bank St., Sewickley, Pa,

[ 1440 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OFFICE ADDRESS: Limbach Company Executive Offices, 4 Gareway Center,
Pittsburgh, Pa.

PREPARED AT: Hempstead High School, Hempstead, Long Island, N.Y.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: 5.B., €1771 laude, tg4o.

MARRIED: Alice Whalen, Oct. 4, 1941 (divorced t954); Mary Alice Counsell,
July 2, 1955. CHILDREN: Robert Allen, Feb. 26, 1943; Diane, Feb. 7, 1048,
Karen, Oct. 15, 1951; Constance, Jan. 5, 1957.

OccUPATION: Personnel and labor relations manager, Limbach Company, large
mechanical construction firm.

OFFICES HELD: Chairman, Sewickley Republicans for Johnson; functional chair-
man, Pittsburgh Personnel Association Conference Program.

MEMBER OF: Harvard-Yale-Princeton Club, Pittsburgh, Edgeworth Club,
American Management Association, Pittsburgh Personnel Association,
United World Federalists;, Pittsburgh Playhouse Association.

PUBLICATIONS: “The Effects of the Shorter Work Weck, Bargaining Strategy
on the Thirty-five-hour Week.”

GOOD Lord! Is it that long ago? Between graduation and today,
and between the first suggestion I was to write a biography and
now, there must be a common ratio of cosmic import. Each past
event seems as far away as the other — and as near!

For that reason I have not made haste to recount, nor felt dis-
posed to account for where I’ve been, what I've done, or what or
who I am. (Moreover, wouldn’t it be more apt to measure one’s
twenty-fifth anniversary from the day of entry ito rather than
graduation from Harvard — the beginning of an epoch far more
significant and traumatic for most of us than its end?)

Besides, who wants to know; and who really cares? In past
Reports, I (among many certainly) read the reports of those I knew
and some of those I wish ’'d known. For the rest. they are pretty
much skipped or scanned. For those few who will read this, then,
Hello again.

Perhaps I am a typical Harvard man: IT have, in this twenty-fifth
year of scholastic grace, nowhere reached what Pd reckoned as my
potential; and I have attained but a small part of my ambition. Ob-
versely, neither have I succumbed to many grandiose illusions, nor
delved some of the sloughs into which my meaner, or more naive,
parts might irretrievably have thrown me.

So then — my livelihood has been primarily earned in the ficlds of
labor relations, personnel, and industrial engineering, These have
been good and fruitful; and while T have noc made many contribu.
tions for all to sce, there are some organizations more stable, a few
people more happy and productive, and some tiny corners of the
several places we have been which are more beautiful — | truly

[1441]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

believe — because I have come. (The “I” and “we” are uncon-
sciously but naturally exchanged.)

I can follow — even at times endow — a conversation on a welter
of subjects: the decay alternatives of a Kg meson, the party voting
pattern in my state; whether “a happening” is an art form; the dol-
lar drain (personal even more than national! ); the — well, the bull
session syndrome persists.

1 look at my family and I find — after an initial marital disaster —
a still new wife and lovely companion of ten years, and children
growing too fast from our tender monsters to not-too-bad-looking-
or-doing young people. It is good; but I must help Diane get past
that D in chemistry....

I see my business associates: I can work well and in tandem with
almost all. But there are these particular flaws in our efforts and the
organization needs bolstering there. ...

1 see our country still largely beautiful, but also that some parts
are growing ugly —the auto graveyard on that farm must go, that
block needs rezoning, 1 must win the board over to a new lab for the
junior high...

I am aware through all the media of the dangers in the world, of
turmoil in which we find ourselves—and which we helped stir! I
feel the odds are slim against its being made better. Yet we must try
and I must somehow help...

You see there is so much to do. As with everything else growing
scarce, time becomes precious, Many of us have less than half of
what we had before us when we graduated.

Please excuse me. I am busy. I have some marks to make before

I go.

[ 1442 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

WILLIAM LAWRENCE Woop

    

HOME ADDRESS: 62 2 Ivy St, Oyster Bay, N.Y.
OFFICE ADDRESS: First National City Bank, 399 Park Ave., New York, N.Y.
PREPARED AT: Belmont Hill School, Belmont, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

marrieD: Marion F. Geer, Nov. 7, 1942. cHiLp: Marion Geer Canfield, April
15, 1960.

HARVARD BROTHER: John Cotton Wood, ’38.

OCCUPATION: Assistant vice-president, pension new business, First National City

Bank.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant to New York traffic and sales manager, Eastern Air
Lines, 1940-41, 1946-48; own business venture, 1948-50; assistant director of
information, 1950-53, Columbia Gas System, Inc.; since 1953, pension trust

department, First National City Bank.
MEMBER OF: Harvard Club of New York; Cold Spring Harbor Beach Club.

EMERGING from Harvard into actual life, I went into the airline
business in New York. My brilliant record in the company’s new
training program was rewarded by an assignment to their baggage
rooms, at LaGuardia Airport, but fortunately I soon escaped to
traffic and sales work.

Left to join Army Air Force and went through pilot training in
Texas. I used to get the feeling you could fly forever and never get
over the state line. Didn’t either for nine months, then went to the
Pacific Northwest for transition training in B-17s. Shortly there-
after I went to England and joined the gist Bomb Group of the
Fighth Air Force. Flew twenty-five missions, winding up as squad-
ron lead on last few. Returned intact to USA and spent last vear
and a half of World War ID in Montana.

When I got out of the Air Force I headed back to New York with
my wife Marion, who had come from New York to Texas for our
wedding while I was a cadet in San Antonio, We settled in Man-

[ 1443 |

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

hattan, escaping on weekends and in the summer. A couple of years
ago we moved out to Oyster Bay with our little daughter, and I am
by now a hardened commuter. .

I had another go at the airline, and while progress was fast and it
was fun, it didn’t pay enough, in those days anyway. After a short
and abortive fling at a business venture of my own, I spent three
years in public relations work for a big natural gas system. Thence,
I went to First National City Bank, where I am working on new
business for the pension trust department. Most of my time is spent
in New York, but I like to think I travel enough to keep from
getting too hopelessly insular. It’s a job that lets you meet lots of
people, which I enjoy.

If 1 had it to do over again, I certainly would have handled my
carcer differently from the outset, but all things considered, I have
been fortunate in many ways.

JOHN PIERPONT WOODS

 

HOME Abpress: 120 Severn River Rd., Severna Park, Md.
OFFICE AbpREsS: National Business Aircraft Association, Pennsylvania Bldg.,
Washington, D.C.
PREPARED AT: Brooks School, North Andover, Mass.
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940,
marriep: Joan Holden. cittpren: Juliet M, March 23, 1948; Josephine C.,
Jan. 16, 1955; Elizabeth H., Nov. 3, 1956, Mary L., 1960.
OCCUPATION: Association staff.
OFFICES HELD: Representative to Connecticut General Assembly, 1959-63;
headed local March of Dimes, Hospital Fund Campaign, Junior Rifle
Club (nine years); officer in local Red Cross, P.T.A,, Volunteer Fire

Company; member, County Aviation Committee; other community activi-
ties,

[ 1444 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

THE years have been full and interesting. Aviation has provided the
dominant theme, with eight years as a military pilot (mostly war-
time), two years as a charter pilot and flight instructor, eight years
as an airline pilot, and now three years as a specialist in the operation
and development of the national air traffic system.

I played some hookey, and these jobs were the most fun. The
charter pilot job was like a story book, and instructing brought
great satisfaction. I dove into local politics, earning two elective
terms in the Connecticut General Assembly —talk about the
ecstasy of agony! I'd still be doing it if I didn’t have mouths to feed,
and will again if I can.

Brief intervening idle moments have been filled operating a drill
press, manufacturing wire, selling paint, as a real estate broker.

Our Class Secretary wrote us hold-outs to stop waiting that extra
week to become president of something, and send the report in.
The way things have been going, it will take more than a week.

JOHN HANFORD WOODWARD

 

MAILING ADDRESS: Old Saugatuck Road, East Norwalk, Conn.

[ 1445 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

ROBERT WHITMORE WOODWARD

    

7 : :

ME AppREss: 56 Hatherly Rd., Rockland, Mass.

71CE ADDRESS: M, B. Claff & Sons, Brockton, Mass.

=PARED AT: Phillips Exeter Academy, Exeter, N.H.

ARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: S.B., 1940.

rrieD: Virginia Rich, July 7, 1940. CHILDREN: Robert Whitmore, Jr., Sept.
12, 1942; Lawrence Arthur, Feb. 22, 1946; Christopher Kimball, Jan. 14,
1949-

sUPATION: Engineer, M. B. Claff & Sons, manufacturers of paper boxes, box
machinery and specialized medical equipment.

Ices HELD: Chairman, Finance Committee, 1950-53, Building Code Appeal
Board, 1960-64, Town of Rockland; treasurer, Rockland Webbing Com-
pany.

\ineR OF: Old Colony Harvard Club; Union Glee Club, Channing Church;
1001 Research & Development Group, Army Reserve (lieutenant colonel
Gy).

LicatTioxs: Four patents on liquor dispensing systems (Autobar System).

FORE the Army called I did have a year to start my career. Then
now I could not spend much time at a desk. I had to get my
ids dirty and they have been that way most of the time since.
chines, dull and dingy to bright and beautiful have taken into
ir being bits, pieces and great chunks of my life and the tip of one
yer.

Vhen the Army called I began four years with the First Division.
an artilleryman I was somewhat frustrated. I should perhaps have
n building or designing guns instead of shooting them but I did
ome an effective and much decorated captain in the Seventh
id Artillery along with Classmates Dowd and Stabler.

Ay family is probably typical for the Class, Virginia and I have
2e fine sons. Bob has his degree and commission from Colby and

[ 1446 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

is awaiting Air Force orders; Larry is a freshman at the University
of Pennsylvania, Tophy, a sophomore in high school. Pride,
pleasure, satisfaction, I just consider myself a lucky man.

I am a non-conformist of course. Even for a Harvard man, how-
ever, my family thinks I sometimes go too far. They even criticize
our house. I built it with but one window, two elevators and no
stairs. My choice of friends, cars or neckties is apparently hopeless.
Sometimes I almost agree. It might be nice to spend a long dull
summer at home. Nothing to do, just think of it, instead of islands
and houseboats, beach buggies and tide charts and getting Dad to
work by compass on a foggy morning.

Next, convictions; non-conformist or not there can be only one
conviction. Never be convinced. As an engineer I can never be con-
vinced that there is no better design. Society must never be con-
vinced that the white Anglo-Saxon sits next to God. Politics must
never convince that our great American system is anything but im-
perfect. And finally religion, of course, fails if it convinces.

McIVER WALLACE WOODY

 

HOME ADDRESS: 2690 Shrewsbury Rd., Columbus, Ohio.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Ohio State University Research Foundation, 1314 Kinnear Rd,
Columbus, Ohio.

PREPARED AT: Pingry School, Elizabeth, N_J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937, 1939-1941,

MarRIED; Mary Acuff Greey, Oct. 23, 1948, comoren: David Melver, June tg,
1953; Alexandra Mary, Aug. at, 1955; Charlotre Regina, Oct. 1&8 tesa,
OCCUPATION: Education; assistant to the director, Ohio Stare University Research

Foundation; contract administranon, "
OFFICES HELD: Captain, United Fund Campaign, Plainfield, NJ. 1962.

[1447 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940
member OF: Institute of Electrical & Electronic Engi :
gineers; Collectors’ ;
Sports Car Club of America, 1950-60. iss
pustications: Westinghouse Patent Disclosure Awards, 1954, 1957.

SINCE leaving college my “career” has spanned many fields, It
has included teaching, basic research, engineering, marketing and,
now, university administration.

The past twenty-five years have many fine memories: fine arts at
Fogg on a winter afternoon, acrobatic flying practice over Boston
Harbor, the challenge of self-directed research, the slow but satisfy-
ing progress a group can make toward improving the profitability
of a component of a large corporation, the alarms and excursions
incident to the marketing operations of a manufacturer of consumer
goods, and now an assignment that allows time for and encourages
professional growth.

Running through all these memories is a continuing thread: a
growing family whose vacation trips over the years have covered
most of eastern Canada, Newfoundland and St. Pierre et Miquelon.

While the truths one learns are seldom easily stated, life must all-

in-all have been more than merely good to find me facing the
coming years with such anticipation.

ARTHUR LITTLE WORTHINGTON

gets ee ae 2
; 4 &

  

HOME appress: 14 Dreve des Rhododendrons, Brussels 17, Belgium.

OFFICE appress: First National City Bank, 8 Rue Cardinal Mercier, Brussels 1,
Belgium.

PREPARED AT: Westminster School, London, England,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1937.
makrieD: Burdeene Irvin, May 17, 1941. cHttoren: Anne Burdeene, March 15,

1944; Arthur Little, Jr, Sept. 17, 1946; Cynthia Grace, Aug. 26 8:
Paul Hill, Aug. 7, 1953- » AUg. 20, 1946,

[ 1448 ]

2§TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

OCCUPATION: Finance; general manager, First National City Bank, Brussels
Branch.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant cashier, September, 1952, to December, 1959, assistant
vice-president, December, 1959, to July, 1962, general manager, since July
1962, First National City Bank; director, American Chamber of Com-
merce in Belgium, since 1963, American Club of Brussels, since 1963, Inter-
national School of Brussels, since 1963, Belgo-American Association, 1964,
American and Common Market Club, 1964.

MEMBER OF: Royal Golf Club de Belgique; Cercle Royal Gaulois Artistique et
Littéraire; Royal Automobile Club de Belgique, Brussels Lawn Tennis
Club; all Brussels, Belgium,

LEAVING Harvard at the end of freshman year I went to work as
a messenger in the National City Bank and except for five years in
the Field Artillery during the war I have worked there ever since.
Before the war I joined Squadron A, New York National Guard,
and taking the “ten series” exams for a commission, I went on active
duty in January, 1941, as a second lieutenant when the squadron
was mobilized. After service in Hawaii I saw action in Leyte,
Philippine Islands and Okinawa and was demobilized as captain in
January, 1946.

At one of the many farewell parties given before the squadron
was mobilized in 1941, I met Miss Burdeene Irvin and we were
married in May, 1941, in Atlanta, Georgia.

On return from the Army I went back to work for the National
City Bank being assigned to the Overseas Division in May, 1947. I
was promoted to assistant cashier in 1952 and to assistant vice-presi-
dent in 1959. When the bank decided to open a branch in Brussels I
was given the job and moved to Brussels with the family in early
1962.

I am a knight of the Belgian Order of the Crown (Ordre de la
Couronne) for cooperation with the Belgian Government in con-
nection with its program to increase industrial investments in Bel-
gium.

Since the war we have lived in New York City; Babylon, Long
Island; Islip, Long Island; now Belgium. Brussels makes an excellent
home base, and with or without children Burdeene and IT have been
able to see a good deal of Europe which T had known a little from
boyhood in England.

Our elder daughter, having had one year of college in the States,
finished her studies in Brussels and is now Working in New York.
The other three children are going to the International School of

[ 1449 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

Brussels which is a private schoo] preparing children for college in
the United States.

As for extracurricular activities I do a good deal of shooting dur-
ing the game season — pheasant, partridges, woodcock, hare, rabbits
and some duck. Otherwise I try to keep in shape playing squash in
the winter and tennis in summer. I am an Episcopalian and a Re-
publican. I am also one of the minority who do not think Barry
Goldwater was what our liberal press made him out to be. I am sorry
that our country seems to be going headlong down the path to
socialism.

MORTON GAITHER WURTELE

 

HOME ADDRESS: 432 E. Rustic Rd., Santa Monica, Calif.

OFFICE ADDRESS: Dept. of Meteorology, University of California, Los Angeles
24, Calif,

PREPARED AT: University of Chicago High School, Chicago, Ill.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: S.B., Magna cum laude, 1940; A.M. (Univ.
of California at Los Angeles), 1944; pH.p. (ibid.), 1953.

MARRIED: Zivia Syrkin, Dec. 31, 1942. CHILDREN: Eve Syrkin, Feb. 23, 1951;
Jonathan Syrkin, Oct. 8, 1955.

occupation: Professor, University of California, Los Angeles.

OFFICES HELD: Assistant professor, Massachusetts Institute of Technology, 1953-
§8; associate professor, 1958-64, professor, since 1964, University of Cali-
fornia, Los Angeles.

Member OF: American Meteorological Society; American Geophysical Union,

Royal Meteorological Society (foreign member); American Association
for the Advancement of Science; Del Mar Beach Club
PUBLICATIONS: Various papers in scientific journals,

[ 1450 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

JOSEPH ANDERSON WYANT

 

HOME ADDRESS: 5484 Trimble Rd., N.E., Atlanta, Ga. 30305.
OFFICE ADDRESS: 210 Walker St., S.W., Atlanta, Ga. 30313.
PREPARED AT: Boys’ High School, Atlanta, Ga,
YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., cu7 laude, 1940.
MARRIED: Frances Stalvey, Aug. 25, 1951. CHILDREN: Deborah Frances, Feb. 20,
1953; Catherine Keblinger, April 26, 1955; Isabel Eaton, Dec. 19, 1959.
HARVARD BROTHERS: William Keblinger Wyant, Jr. °35; Domimque Homan
Wyant, ’50, LL.B. °53.

OCCUPATION: Vice-president in charge of sales, Wyant & Sons Paper Company,
wholesale paper distributor.

OFFICES HELD: President, Atlanta Junior Chamber of Commerce, 1951-53, Har-
vard Club of Atlanta, 1954, Atlanta Association for Mental Health, t9s:-
53, Georgia Association for Mental Health, 1954-55; director, National
Association for Mental Health, 1954-59; president, Southern Paper Trade
Association, 1964-65; director, Atlanta Chamber of Commerce, tost-$3;
member, Merchant Advisory Committee, Hammermill Paper Company,
1963-66; chairman, Kimberly-Clark Advertising Committee, 1963, colonel,
US. Air Force Reserve, currently.

MEMBER OF: Commerce Club, Atlanta.

PUBLICATIONS: Article in various paper trade journals: “Paper Sales.”

THERE is little to add to what has already been written concerning
my own twenty-five-year experience since graduation, T had noted
in the book of 1946 that I intended to start a small business in At
lanta a few years further on, Having spent practically all of the hirse
Six years since graduation in the Air Force, [then worked for two
years in Princeton, New Jersey, with Dr. vallup’s Audience Ke-
search. I returned to Atlanta in January of 1948 to organize, with
my father and an older brother, Wyant & Sens Paper Company, a
concern engaged in the distribution of paper of all kinds, both print.
ing and industrial.

[ 1450 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

HENRY COREY WYNN

 

OME AbbRESS: 8 Chisholm Rd., Winchester, Mass.

FFICE ApbRESS: Harvard Athletic Association, 60 Boylston St., Cambridge,
Mass.

zepaRED AT: Scott High School, North Braddock, Pa.

EARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREE: A.B., 1940.

arRIED; Katherine Hodge, June 9, 1946. cHmpreN: Alan Corey, March 8,
1949; Katherine Anne, April 20, 1954; James Mark, Dec. 31, 1956.

scupATION: Coach, Tennis and Squash, Harvard College; summer: tennis
professional, Wellesley Country Club.

I is really hard to realize that twenty-five years have slipped by so
st. But then I should know by now that I can never keep track of
me anyway. Right now our faithful Class Secretary has brought
ie back to the present and the realization that there is very little
ine left for this report. Since I shall be looking forward to reading
yout our Class, it is only fair to write a little too.

Following a year of study at the Harvard Business School, I
ent to work for Pratt & Whitney Aircraft Company in East Hart-
rd, Connecticut. With high hopes of a good foundation, I de-
ded to start at the bottom and work up. After about eight months

production work, and several courses in industrial engineering, I
ached the department of Job Evaluation and remained here until
ining the Army. In the early part of my training I spent some time

Georgia where I met my wife, and was then off to India for two
ng years, While there I soon learned to appreciate our high stand-
d of living. Upon my return I rushed back to my old job at P.&W.,
it before long became restless with the slow pace of work. Teach-
¢ tennis in Florida seemed very attractive; however, I decided to
mnsult with an experienced teacher. 1 was encouraged by Jack

[ 1454 ]

UREN VIO ae SE TYR A 8 Stet og hr oe a ees

ABTA MRL NING.

ee ene. eta

Seer hay BANANAS tate te
SP AS

EERE A STA TLS EE PIR BUTT SLU, vag ae gy mon
- . v? Sate a,

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

Barnaby, my former coach, to join him here at Harvard. This move

was in December, 1946, and I have been at Harvard ever since.

As an undergraduate I never thought that I might someday return
to become a part of the Harvard scene. I have found coaching here
at Harvard and working with its many fine students to be a most

satisfying vocation.

MASAO YATSUHASHI

 

HOME AND OFFICE ADDRESS: Pondville Hospital at Norfolk, P.O. Box tit, Wal-

pole, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Country Day School, Newton, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., ct lattde, 1940; MD. 1944.

MARRIED: Joanne Olive Whittaker, May 6, 1961. cHitp: Douglas Stuart, April
8, 1964. .

HARVARD BROTHER: Michio Yatsuhashi, ’38,

OCCUPATION: Surgeon; chief of professional services and chief of surgery,
Pondville Hospital at Norfolk.

MEMBER OF: American Board of Surgery; American College of Surgeons;
Boston Surgical Society; New England Cancer Society; American Med-
ical Association, Massachusetts Medical Society; Harvard Club of Boston,

PUBLICATIONS: “Problems in Wet Colostomy Management, Following Radical
Pelvic Surgery,” with Drs. L, Parsons and J. W. Bell, Aonerican Journal
of Surgery, September, 1952; “The Roentgen Diagnosis of Gastne Mela-
noma,” with Drs. James Potchen and Christian Khung, New Fagland

Journal of Medicine, July, 1964.

THE first fifteen years following graduation from college were
spent obtaining my medical education and surgical certitication.
Most of this time was spent in the Boston area at Elarvard Medical
School, Massachusetts General Hospital, Pondville State Cancer
Hospital at Walpole, and as assistant to Dr, Langdon Parsons,

( 1455 ]

~_ttnsensssstinsfuntaensen assassins

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

present Director of Alumni Relations. The one venture far afield
occurred when, as a captain, Medical Corps, USAR, I served as
surgical officer at the Murphy Army Hospital, Waltham, Massa-
chusetts, and then was sent to Tokyo Army Hospital and on to the
ith Evacuation Hospital in Wonju, Korea, in 1952, as chief of
general surgical services and chief of surgery.

Certification by the American Board of Surgery and becoming a
fellow of the American College of Surgeons in 1955 completed my
formal training.

The past ten years have been spent doing what I was trained to do.
After a three-year period as assistant chief of surgery at the Lemuel
Shattuck Hospital, 1 came back to Pondville Hospital as chief
physician in surgery and have since acquired the position of chief of
professional services and chief of surgery.

It is unfortunate that more residents of Massachusetts are not
aware of the fact that Pondville Hospital is the first state cancer
hospital in the country to remain in continuous operation, and that
along with the affiliations with the Boston medical schools and teach-
ing hospitals, we maintain an up-to-date and a very high calibre of
medical and surgical care for any resident of Massachusetts with
cancer.

In 1961 | was married to Joanne Olive Whittaker. She was a
premed biochemistry major at Jackson College, Tufts University,
who went into medical research with Dr. Langdon Parsons. She did
the basic work for him on an electro vaginal potential and its applica-
tion to problems of ovulation hormonal cycles. We have one son,
Douglas.

[ 1456 ]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

———HARD EMORY YFLLOTT, JR.

 

Ss 14 S. Eutaw St., Baltimore 1, Md.

ELMER GEORGE YESKO

 

5s: 2271 Elizabeth Ave., Scotch Plains, N.J. aro76,

 

[ 1457 ]

HARVARD CLASS OF 1940

WILLIAM PHILLIPS YOUNG

 

MAING Apress: General Delivery, Tokyo Central Post Office, Tokyo, Japan.

IRVING ROBERT ZAGER

 

HOME abpress: 10, Saunders Way, Sketty, Swansea, Glam., Great Britain.

"9
oFFice appress: The Emerson Consultants, Ltd., 8, Grafton St., London W.1,
Great Britain,

PREPARED AT: Passaic High School, Passaic, N.J.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940, DEGREES: A.B, C17 laude, 1940; LL.B. (Yale Univ.),
I

MARRIED: . Nancy Heller, Feb. 28, 1948. cHitpreN: Masha Judith, April 28,
1950; Dav id George, Jan. 8, 1955.

occupation: Management consultant.

puauications: Three articles on management subjects in professional journals

[ 1458]

25TH ANNIVERSARY REPORT

ANTHONY ZOVICKIAN

 

HOME ApDDREss: 77 Grove St., Winchester, Mass.

OFFICE ADDRESS: 264 Beacon St., Boston, Mass.

PREPARED AT: Watertown High School, Watertown, Mass.

YEARS IN COLLEGE: 1936-1940. DEGREES: A.B., cum laude, 1940; M.D. (Yale Univ.),
1943. ,

MARRIED: Barbara Starr Hurlin, Oct. 28, 1944. CHILDREN: William Hurlin, Feb.
13, 1946; John Anthony, June 14, 1949.

occuPaTION: Plastic and reconstructive surgery; assistant professor of surgery,
Boston University School of Medicine. ~

OFFICES HELD: Captain, Medical Corps, U.S. Army, 1944-46; clinical instructor
in surgery, Yale Medical School, 1950-51; instructor in surgery (plastic),
Johns Hopkins School of Medicine, 1951-53; Trainee in Cancer, USPHS,
1951-53; part-time teacher, Boston University School of Medicine, 1959-
65; assistant in otolaryngology, Harvard Medical School, since 1964; asso-
clate surgeon, Massachusetts Memorial Hospital, Boston University Medi-
cal Center, since 1959; associate surgeon, Boston City Hospital, Third
(B.U.) Service, since 1954, visiting surgeon, pediatric surgery, Boston
City Hospital, since 1954; consultant in plastic surgery, V.A. Hospital,
Providence, R.L, since 1959; associate surgeon, Massachusetts Eye & Ear
Infirmary, since 1963.

MEMBER OF: Alpha Omega Alpha (Yale Chapter), 1943; American Board of
Surgery (diplomate 1951); American Board of Plastic and Reconstructive
Surgery (certified 1955); American Society for Plastic and Reconstructive
Surgery; Society of Head and Neck Surgeons; Boston Surgical Society.

PUBLICATIONS: Publications in various medical journals on plastic surgical
themes; contributor to book, The Craft of Surgery, Little, Brown & Com-

pany, 1964.

TWENTY-FIVE years ago my ambitions were to become a surgeon,
to travel, to teach, to be creative, to make a worth-while contribu-
tion in my chosen field. To some extent, my visions have been

realized.

[ 1459 ]

